insights from collaboration with  
think tanks, academic networks  
and international organisations and 
institutions. Findings are shared with 
senior management and other internal 
stakeholders, providing them with a 
prioritised overview of newly identified 
emerging risks and an estimate of their 
potential impact on swiss Re’s business.

We also publish an annual emerging risk 
report to share findings, raise awareness 
and initiate a risk dialogue with key 
external stakeholders.

To further advance risk awareness  
across the industry and beyond, swiss Re 
continues to participate actively in 
strategic risk initiatives such as the 
international Risk governance Council, 
and the CRO Forum’s Emerging Risk 
initiative. Over the past year, we 
contributed to several publications on 
emerging risk topics, including the 
international Risk governance Council 
guidelines for emerging risk governance 
and a CRO Forum position paper  
“The smart Factory — Risk management 
perspectives”.

potential sustainability risks are mitigated 
through clear corporate values and active 
dialogue and engagement with affected 
external stakeholders, as well as  
robust internal controls. These include  
a group-wide sustainability Risk 
Framework to identify and address 
sustainability risks across swiss Re’s 
business activities. The framework 
comprises sustainability-related  
policies ‒ with pre-defined exclusions, 
underwriting criteria and quality 
standards ‒ as well as a central due 
diligence process for related transactional 
risks.

sustainability risks are monitored  
and managed by dedicated experts  
in swiss Re’s group sustainability Risk 
team, which is also responsible for 
maintaining the sustainability Risk 
Framework. in addition, this unit supports 
swiss Re’s risk management and 
business strategy through tailored risk 
assessments and risk portfolio reviews, 
fosters risk awareness through internal 
training, and facilitates development  
of innovative solutions to address 
sustainability issues. Finally, it represents 
and advocates swiss Re’s position on 
selected sustainability risk topics to 
external stakeholders.

swiss Re is a founding signatory to the 
UN principles for sustainable insurance 
(UN psi) and is currently a board member 
of this initiative. The UN psi provide  
a global framework for managing 
environmental, social and governance 
challenges. swiss Re has been actively 
contributing to the initiative for several 
years, co-chaired it from 2013 to 2015 
and publicly reports progress against the 
principles in its annual Corporate 
Responsibility Report; the 2015 report is 
expected to be published in may 2016.

in 2015, swiss Re was again recognised 
as “insurance industry sector leader”  
in the dow Jones sustainability indices.  
This is the ninth time since 2004 that 
swiss Re has led the insurance sector  
in these rankings. The award highlights 
swiss Re’s long-term commitment to 
sustainable business and our efforts  
to further embed sustainability into key 
business processes and operations.

For more information on our sustainability 
practices, see also the Corporate 
Responsibility section on page 116.

Emerging risks
Anticipating possible developments in 
swiss Re’s risk landscape is an important 
element of our integrated approach  
to Enterprise Risk management. 
We encourage pre-emptive thinking on 
risk in all areas of our business, combining 
our broad claims experience and risk 
expertise with a structured horizon-
scanning process. The key objectives are 
to reduce uncertainty and help diminish 
the volatility of the group’s results,  
while also identifying new business 
opportunities and raising awareness of 
emerging risks, both within the group 
and across the industry.

The group’s risk identification processes 
are supported by a systematic framework 
that identifies and assesses emerging 
risks and opportunities across all risk 
categories, including potential surprise 
factors that could affect known loss 
potentials. This internal sONAR system 
gives swiss Re employees a forum to 
raise ideas on emerging risks and report 
early signals using an interactive platform. 
This information is complemented with 

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  73

