FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements

2  Information on business segments

The Group provides reinsurance and insurance throughout the world through its business segments. The business segments  
are determined by the organisational structure and by the way in which management reviews the operating performance  
of the Group.

The Group presents four core operating business segments: Property & Casualty Reinsurance, Life & Health Reinsurance, 
Corporate Solutions and Admin Re®. The presentation of each segment’s balance sheet is closely aligned to the segment legal 
entity structure. The assignment of assets and liabilities for entities that span more than one segment is determined by considering 
local statutory requirements, legal and other constraints, the economic view of duration and currency requirements of the 
reinsurance business written, and the capacity of the segments to absorb risks. Interest expense is based on the segment’s 
capital funding position. The tax impact of a segment is derived from the legal entity tax obligations and the segmentation of the 
pre-tax result. While most of the tax items can be directly attributed to individual segments, the tax which impacts two or more 
segments is allocated to the segments on a reasonable basis. Property & Casualty Reinsurance and Life & Health Reinsurance 
share the same year-to-date effective tax rate as both business segments belong to the Reinsurance Business Unit.

Accounting policies applied by the business segments are in line with those described in the summary of significant accounting 
policies (please refer to Note 1).

The Group operating segments are outlined below.

Property & Casualty Reinsurance and Life & Health Reinsurance
Reinsurance consists of two segments, Property & Casualty and Life & Health. The Reinsurance Business Unit operates  
globally, both through brokers and directly with clients, and provides a large range of solutions for risk and capital management.  
Clients include stock and mutual insurance companies as well as public sector and governmental entities. In addition to traditional 
reinsurance solutions, Reinsurance offers insurance-linked securities and other insurance-related capital market products in  
both Property & Casualty and Life & Health.

Property & Casualty includes the business lines property, casualty (including motor), and specialty. Life & Health includes the 
life and health lines of business.

Corporate Solutions
Corporate Solutions offers innovative insurance capacity to mid-sized and large multinational corporations across the globe. 
Offerings range from standard risk transfer covers and multi-line programmes, to customised solutions tailored to the needs 
of clients. Corporate Solutions serves customers from over 52 offices worldwide.

172  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

