Coinsurance

Combined ratio

Commission

Commutation

Cover

Credit insurance

Credit spreads

arrangement by which a number of insurers and/or reinsurers share a risk.

the ratio is a combination of the non-life claims ratio and the expense ratio.

Remuneration paid by the insurer to its agents, brokers or intermediaries, or by the 
reinsurer to the insurer, for costs in connection with the acquisition and administration 
of insurance business.

the termination of a reinsurance contract by agreement of the parties on the basis 
of one or more lump sum payments by the reinsurer which extinguish its liability under 
the contract. the payment made by the reinsurer commonly relates to incurred losses 
under the contract.

insurance and reinsurance protection of one or more specific risk exposures based  
on a contractual agreement.

insurance against financial losses sustained through the failure, for commercial 
reasons, of policyholders’ clients to pay for goods or services supplied to them.

Difference in yield between a fixed income security which has default risk and one 
which is considered to be risk-free, such as U.S. treasury securities.

Directors’ and officers’ liability  
insurance (D&O)

liability insurance for directors and officers of an entity, providing cover for their 
personal legal liability towards shareholders, creditors, employees and others arising 
from wrongful acts such as errors and omissions.

Disability insurance

Earnings per share (EPS)

insurance against the incapacity to exercise a profession as a result of sickness or  
other infirmity.

Portion of a company’s profit allocated to each outstanding share of common stock. 
earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average 
number of common shares outstanding during the period.

Expense ratio

Sum of acquisition costs and other operating costs and expenses, in relation to 
premiums earned.

Guaranteed minimum death benefit 
(GMDB)

a feature of variable annuity business. the benefit is a predetermined minimum 
amount that the beneficiary will receive upon the death of the insured.

G-SIIs

Health insurance

Incurred but not reported (IBNR)

Globally systemically important insurers.

Generic term applying to all types of insurance indemnifying or reimbursing for losses 
caused by bodily injury or sickness or for expenses of medical treatment necessitated 
by sickness or accidental bodily injury.

Provision for claims incurred but not reported by the balance sheet date. in other 
words, it is anticipated that an event will affect a number of policies, although no 
claims have been made so far, and is therefore likely to result in liability for the insurer.

Swiss Re 2015 financial Report  267

