FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements

Notes to the Group financial statements

1  Organisation and summary of significant accounting policies

Nature of operations
The Swiss Re Group, which is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, comprises Swiss Re Ltd (the parent company) and its 
subsidiaries (collectively, the “Swiss Re Group” or the “Group”). The Swiss Re Group is a wholesale provider of reinsurance, 
insurance and other insurance-based forms of risk transfer. Working through brokers and a network of offices around the globe, 
the Group serves a client base made up of insurance companies, mid- to large-sized corporations and public sector clients.

Basis of presentation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States of America (US GAAP) and comply with Swiss law. All significant intra-group transactions and 
balances have been eliminated on consolidation. 

Principles of consolidation
The Group’s financial statements include the consolidated financial statements of Swiss Re Ltd and its subsidiaries. Voting 
entities which Swiss Re Ltd directly or indirectly controls through holding a majority of the voting rights are consolidated in  
the Group’s accounts. Variable interest entities (VIEs) are consolidated when the Swiss Re Group is the primary beneficiary.  
The Group is the primary beneficiary when it has power over the activities that impact the VIE’s economic performance and at 
the same time has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. 
Companies which the Group does not control, but over which it directly or indirectly exercises significant influence, are 
accounted for using the equity method or the fair value option and are included in other invested assets. The Swiss Re Group’s 
share of net profit or loss in investments accounted for under the equity method is included in net investment income. Equity  
and net income of these companies are adjusted as necessary to be in line with the Group’s accounting policies. The results of 
consolidated subsidiaries and investments accounted for using the equity method are included in the financial statements for  
the period commencing from the date of acquisition.

Use of estimates in the preparation of financial statements
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the 
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as the related disclosure, including contingent assets  
and liabilities. The Swiss Re Group’s liabilities for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses and policy benefits for life and  
health include estimates for premium, claim and benefit data not received from ceding companies at the date of the financial 
statements. In addition, the Group uses certain financial instruments and invests in securities of certain entities for which 
exchange trading does not exist. The Group determines these estimates based on historical information, actuarial analyses, 
financial modelling and other analytical techniques. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates described above.

Foreign currency remeasurement and translation
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured to the respective subsidiary’s functional currency at average 
exchange rates. Monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured to the functional currency at closing exchange rates, whereas 
non-monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured to the functional currency at historical rates. Remeasurement gains and 
losses on monetary assets and liabilities and trading securities are reported in earnings. Remeasurement gains and losses on 
available-for-sale securities, investments in consolidated subsidiaries and investments accounted for using the equity method 
are reported in shareholders’ equity.

For consolidation purposes, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries with functional currencies other than US dollars are translated 
from the functional currency to US dollars at closing rates. Revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates. 
Translation adjustments are reported in shareholders’ equity.

Valuation of financial assets
The fair value of the majority of the Group’s financial instruments is based on quoted prices in active markets or observable 
inputs. These instruments include government and agency securities, commercial paper, most investment-grade corporate debt, 
most high-yield debt securities, exchange-traded derivative instruments, most mortgage- and asset-backed securities and listed 
equity securities. In markets with reduced or no liquidity, spreads between bid and offer prices are normally wider compared to 
spreads in highly liquid markets. Such market conditions affect the valuation of certain asset classes of the Group, such as some 
asset-backed securities as well as certain derivative structures referencing such asset classes.

162  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

