financial statements
swiss Re ltd

notes swiss Re ltd

1  significant accounting principles

Basis of presentation
On 1 January 2013, new swiss accounting and financial reporting legislation entered into force based on partial revision of the 
swiss code of Obligations which required implementation in 2015. swiss Re ltd adopted the new regulation for the financial 
statements 2015 and chose to adopt the presentation of the 2014 financial statements to be comparable with 2015. this resulted 
in changes to the presentation of the balance sheet and the notes as well as a reclassification of own shares from assets to 
shareholders’ equity. this reclassification reduced the 2014 previously reported total non-current assets, total assets, total 
shareholders’ equity and total liabilities and shareholders’ equity by cHf 956 million.

Time period
the financial year 2015 comprises the accounting period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.

Use of estimates in the preparation of annual accounts
the preparation of the annual accounts requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts  
of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as the related disclosures. actual results could differ from these estimates.

Foreign currency translation
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are converted into swiss francs at year-end exchange rates with the 
exception of participations, which are maintained in swiss francs at historical exchange rates. income and expenses in foreign 
currencies are converted into swiss francs at average exchange rates for the reporting year.

Cash and cash equivalents
cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank, short-term deposits and certain investments in money market funds with an 
original maturity of three months or less. such current assets are held at nominal value.

Short-term investments
short-term investments contain investments with an original maturity between three months and one year. such investments 
are carried at cost, less necessary and legally permissible depreciation.

Receivables from subsidiaries and affiliated companies/Other receivables
these assets are carried at nominal value. Value adjustments are recorded where the expected recovery value is lower than the  
nominal value.

Accrued income
accrued income consists of both other expenditures incurred during the financial year but relating to a subsequent financial year, 
and revenues relating to the current financial year but receivable in a subsequent financial year.

Loans to subsidiaries and affiliated companies
loans to subsidiaries and affiliated companies are carried at nominal value. Value adjustments are recorded where the expected 
recovery value is lower than the nominal value. 

Investments in subsidiaries and affiliated companies
these assets are carried at cost, less necessary and legally permissible depreciation.

Payables to subsidiaries and affiliated companies/Other liabilities
these liabilities are carried at nominal value.

Accrued expenses
accrued expenses consist of both income received before the balance sheet date but relating to a subsequent financial year,  
and charges relating to the current financial year but payable in a subsequent financial year.

254  Swiss Re 2015 financial Report

