The Business Unit CROs are responsible 
for risk oversight in their respective 
Business Unit, as well as for establishing 
proper risk governance to ensure efficient 
risk identification, assessment and 
control. They are supported by functional, 
regional and legal entity CROs,  
who are responsible for overseeing risk 
management issues that arise in their 
respective areas.

While the risk management organisation 
is closely aligned to the business 
organisation in order to ensure effective 
risk oversight, all embedded teams and 
CROs remain part of the group Risk 
management function under the group 
CRO. This ensures their independence  
as well as a consistent group-wide 
approach to oversee and control risk.

The central risk management units 
support the CROs at group, Business Unit 
and lower levels in discharging their 
oversight responsibilities. They do so by 
providing services such as:
 ̤ Financial risk management
 ̤ specialised risk category expertise  

and accumulation control

 ̤ Risk modelling and analytics
 ̤ Regulatory relations management
 ̤ maintaining the central risk 

governance framework

 
The central teams also oversee group 
liquidity and capital adequacy and 
maintain the group frameworks for 
controlling these risks throughout  
swiss Re.

group Risk management is also in charge 
of actuarial reserving and monitoring  
of the reserve holdings of Corporate 
solutions and Admin Re®, whereas in 
Reinsurance the setting of the reserves  
is performed by valuation actuaries within 
the p&C and l&H Business management 
units. 

Risk management activities are 
supported by group internal Audit  
and Compliance units. group internal  
Audit performs independent, objective 
assessments of adequacy and 
effectiveness of internal control systems. 
it evaluates the execution of processes 
including those within Risk management. 
The Compliance function oversees 
swiss Re’s compliance with applicable 
laws, regulations, rules and swiss Re’s 
Code of Conduct. in addition, it assists 
the Board of directors, the group EC and 
management in identifying, mitigating 
and managing compliance risks.  
For more information on our audit and 
compliance functions, see page 101.

Open risk culture
swiss Re fosters and maintains a strong 
risk culture to promote risk awareness 
and support appropriate attitudes and 
behaviours towards risk-taking and risk 
management. Our risk culture provides 
the foundation for the efficient  
and effective application of our 
Risk management framework. 
Risk management reinforces the group’s 
risk culture by ensuring risk transparency, 
and fostering open discussion and 
challenge in the group’s risk-taking  
and risk management processes. 

in regular training programmes, our 
employees are sensitised in key areas  
of risk culture, such as in taking 
accountability for decisions, learning from 
past actions and applying risk behaviours 
in daily work situations. in addition, 
swiss Re’s annual Risk dialogue  
days create a platform where Risk 
management exchanges and discusses 
with the business current and future risk 
themes and related risk strategies.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  63

