The Group considers both the credit risk of its counterparties and own risk of non-performance in the valuation of derivative 
instruments and other over-the-counter financial assets. In determining the fair value of these financial instruments, the assessment 
of the Group’s exposure to the credit risk of its counterparties incorporates consideration of existing collateral and netting 
arrangements entered into with each counterparty. The measure of the counterparty credit risk is estimated with incorporation 
of the observable credit spreads, where available, or credit spread estimates derived based on the benchmarking techniques 
where market data is not available. The impact of the Group’s own risk of non-performance is analysed in the manner consistent 
with the aforementioned approach, with consideration of the Group’s observable credit spreads. The value representing such risk 
is incorporated into the fair value of the financial instruments (primarily derivatives), in a liability position as of the measurement 
date. The change in this adjustment from period to period is reflected in realised gains and losses in the income statement.

For assets or derivative structures at fair value, the Group uses market prices or inputs derived from market prices. A separate 
internal price verification process, independent of the trading function, provides an additional control over the market prices or 
market input used to determine the fair values of such assets. Although management considers that appropriate values have 
been ascribed to such assets, there is always a level of uncertainty and judgement over these valuations. Subsequent valuations 
could differ significantly from the results of the process described above. The Group may become aware of counterparty valuations, 
either directly through the exchange of information or indirectly, for example, through collateral demands. Any implied differences 
are considered in the independent price verification process and may result in adjustments to initially indicated valuations.  
As of 31 December 2015, the Group has not provided any collateral on financial instruments in excess of its own market value 
estimates.

Investments
The Group’s investments in fixed income and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale (AFS) or trading. Fixed income 
securities AFS and equity securities AFS are carried at fair value, based on quoted market prices, with the difference between 
the applicable measure of cost and fair value being recognised in shareholders’ equity. Trading fixed income and equity securities 
are carried at fair value with unrealised gains and losses recognised in earnings. A trading classification is used for securities that 
are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term or for securities where the Group has decided to 
apply the fair value option.

The cost of equity securities AFS is reduced to fair value, with a corresponding charge to realised investment losses if the decline 
in value, expressed in functional currency terms, is other-than-temporary. Subsequent recoveries of previously recognised 
impairments are not recognised in earnings.

For fixed income securities AFS that are other-than-temporary impaired and there is not an intention to sell, the impairment  
is separated into (i) the estimated amount relating to credit loss, and (ii) the amount relating to all other factors. The estimated 
credit loss amount is recognised in earnings, with the remainder of the loss amount recognised in other comprehensive income. 
In cases where there is an intention or requirement to sell, the accounting of the other-than-temporary impairment is the same  
as for equity securities AFS described above.

Interest on fixed income securities is recorded in net investment income when earned and is adjusted for the amortisation of 
any purchase premium or discount. Dividends on equity securities are recognised as investment income on the ex-dividend 
date. Realised gains and losses on sales are included in earnings and are calculated using the specific identification method.

Policy loans, mortgages and other loans are carried at amortised cost. Interest income is recognised in accordance with the 
effective yield method.

Investment in real estate that the Group intends to hold for the production of income is carried at depreciated cost, net of any 
write-downs for impairment in value. Depreciation on buildings is recognised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful 
life of the asset. Land is recognised at cost and not depreciated. Impairment in value is recognised if the sum of the estimated 
future undiscounted cash flows from the use of the real estate is lower than its carrying value. Impairment in value, depreciation 
and other related charges or credits are included in net investment income. Investment in real estate held for sale is carried at the 
lower of cost or fair value, less estimated selling costs, and is not depreciated. Reductions in the carrying value of real estate held 
for sale are included in realised investment losses.

Short-term investments are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in net income. The Group considers 
highly liquid investments with a remaining maturity at the date of acquisition of one year or less, but greater than three months, 
to be short-term investments.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  163

