Corporate GovernanCe
Board of Directors

also provides financial market advice  
on strategic projects and transactions.  
In addition, the Group CIo is responsible  
for the asset Management organisation, 
operational and compliance risks 
pertinent to his responsibilities.

Key responsibilities of individual members of the Group Executive Committee 
Group Chief Executive Officer
the Group Ceo is responsible for 
overseeing the operational management 
of the Group. this responsibility covers 
the Group Functions and the three 
Business Units reinsurance, Corporate 
Solutions and Life Capital. He leads and 
manages the Group eC, its processes, 
including succession planning, cost and 
is responsible for its performance. He 
oversees the work of the Business Unit 
Ceos and the Group Function heads and 
gives them guidance on the execution  
of their tasks. He develops the Group 
Strategy together with the Group eC  
and submits it to the Board of Directors 
for approval. once approved he  
focuses on its implementation and 
further development. 

Group Chief Operating Officer 
the Group Coo is responsible for 
exercising governance and oversight  
of all operations functions. this 
responsibility includes exercising 
governance on behalf of the Group in  
the functions under his responsibility, 
being a strategic partner to the Group 
and the Business Units in all operational 
matters, and providing a high quality,  
cost effective and differentiating 
operating platform for the whole Group.

Group Chief Financial Officer
the Group CFo is responsible for the 
Group-wide Finance function with a 
focus on steering and achieving the 
company’s financial targets. He provides 
guidance to the Business Unit CFos,  
and gives input on the financial aspects 
of strategic projects and transactions.  
the Group CFo provides the audit 
Committee and Finance and risk 
Committee with regular and ad hoc 
financial reporting that allow the 
committees to fulfil their respective 
authorities as per the Group Board 
Committee Charter.

Group Chief Risk Officer
the Group Cro is responsible for 
providing the Board of Directors and 
Group eC with independent assurance 
that all of Swiss re’s risks are being 
appropriately modelled, governed, 
managed and that adequate control 
instruments are in place. as part of 
executing these responsibilities, the 
Group Cro is charged with establishing 
the Group’s risk Management 
Framework for financial, insurance and 
operational risk (comprising people, 
system, internal process and external 
event risk).

Group Chief Investment Officer
the Group CIo is responsible for the 
Group-wide asset Management function 
and its investment results. He manages 
the investment portfolio, advises the 
Business Units on defining their strategic 
asset allocation (Saa), and implements 
the Group and Business Units Saas 
within the risk limits set by the Group eC. 
the Group CIo retains responsibility for 
decisions on investment tactics and  

Group Chief Strategy Officer
the Group CSo is responsible for the 
Group strategic process and initiates the 
respective discussions in the Group eC 
as preparation for submission of strategic 
content to the Group Board for approval. 
the Group CSo supports and advises 
the Group Board and the Group eC by 
developing and articulating a Group 
strategy in close cooperation with the 
Business Units and Group Functions.  

98  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

He augments the Business Unit’s 
activities with targeted initiatives 
including direct investments. He also 
systematically monitors and steers  
Group Strategy implementation. 

Group Chief Underwriting Officer
the Group CUo is responsible for 
steering capital to the most attractive 
areas in underwriting leading themes 
that are of strategic importance for  
Swiss re Group’s underwriting, and 
providing research & Development  
that improves both capital allocation  
and risk selection. 

Regional Presidents
the regional presidents for the  
areas americas, asia and eMea  
are responsible for representing  
the Swiss re Group externally and  
internally, as well as enhancing the  
Swiss re brand and safeguarding the 
Group’s reputation in the geographies  
for which they are responsible.  
the regional presidents also assume 
responsibility for oversight of the  
Group’s operating platform and 
coordinate activities across the  
Business Units in their regions. 

The Business Unit Chief  
Executive Officers
the BU Ceos are responsible for the 
management and performance of  
the respective Business Unit holding 
company as well as the respective 
Business Unit. the BU Ceos set the 
business and corporate agenda of the 
respective Business Unit, ensure high 
quality, performance-oriented and  
timely decision-making. they oversee  
the implementation of the decisions 
made and ensure the Business  
Unit executive Committees fulfil  
their responsibilities.

