Corporate GovernanCe
Board of Directors

92  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

Government. He is also a member  
of the board of the Financial Services 
volunteers Corps, and a member of the 
advisory Committee of autonomous 
research. He was the Deputy Governor 
of the Bank of england from 2009 to 
2013. He held various senior roles at  
the Bank from 1980 onwards, including  
as a member of the Monetary policy 
Committee, Financial policy Committee, 
prudential regulatory authority Board 
and Court of Directors. He also served 
as a member of the Steering Committee 
of the G20 Financial Stability Board  
and as a member of the Board of the  
Bank for International Settlements.  
Sir paul tucker is a British citizen, born  
in 1958. He graduated from trinity 
College, Cambridge, with a Ba in 
Mathematics and philosophy. In 2014, 
he was granted a knighthood for his 
services to central banking.

the Board of Directors proposes that the 
following Board member be re-elected  
as Chairman of the Board of Directors,  
for a one-year term: 
 ̤ Walter B. Kielholz  

the Board of Directors also proposes  
that the following Board members be 
re-elected as members/be elected as 
new member of the Compensation 
Committee, for a one-year term:
 ̤ renato Fassbind
 ̤ C. robert Henrikson
 ̤ Carlos e. represas
 ̤ raymond K.F. Ch’ien (new member) 

Organisational structure  
of the Board of Directors
the Board of Directors constitutes  
itself at the first meeting following  
the General Meeting of shareholders.  
With the exception of the Chairman  
and the members of the Compensation 
Committee who are elected at the 
annual General Meeting of 
shareholders, the Board of Directors 
elects among its members a vice 
Chairman and a Lead Independent 
Director, who may be the same member 
acting in both roles as well as the 
Chairpersons and members of the Group 
Board Committees as proposed by the 
Chairman’s and Governance Committee. 
the vice Chairman and the Lead 
Independent Director are appointed 
amongst the independent members  
of the Board of Directors. the Board  
of Directors may remove the members 
from any such special function at  

any time. the Board of Directors also 
appoints its secretaries who do not  
need to be members of the Board. 

the organisation of the Board of Directors 
is set forth in the Group Bylaws, which 
define the organisational structure  
and function of Swiss re Ltd and the 
responsibilities and authorities of the 
Board of Directors, its committees  
and the Group executive Committee  
(Group eC) and their members. the 
Group Bylaws also provide an overview 
on periodic reports to be submitted to the 
Board of Directors and its committees. 

the Chairman’s and Governance 
Committee and the full Board review  
at least annually the Group Bylaws to 
ensure their continued effectiveness  
and compliance with the articles of 
association, applicable laws, regulations 
and best practice.

Allocation of tasks within the  
Board of Directors
Chairman of the Board of Directors
the Chairman of the Board of Directors 
leads the Board of Directors, convenes 
the Board and committee meetings, 
establishes the agendas and presides 
over Board meetings. the Chairman 
coordinates the work of the Board 
committees together with the respective 
Chairpersons and ensures that the Board 
is kept informed about the committees’ 
activities and findings. In cases of doubt, 
the Chairman makes decisions about the 
authority of the Board or its committees 
and about interpreting and applying the 
Group Bylaws.

the Chairman chairs the Chairman’s and 
Governance Committee and develops 
and continually adapts Swiss re’s 
governance to regulatory and corporate 
requirements. He keeps himself informed 
about the activities within the Group  
and may sit on Group and Business Unit 
executive Committee meetings as he 
deems necessary. He also has access to 
all corresponding documentation and 
minutes. He ensures adequate reporting 
by the Group eC and the Group Ceo  
to the Board of Directors and facilitates  
their communication with the Board.  
He annually assesses the Group Ceo’s 
performance and discusses with the 
Group Ceo the annual performance 
assessment of the Group eC members.

