risks arising from the Group’s dependence on policies, procedures and expertise  
of ceding companies; risks related to investments in emerging markets; and risks  
related to the failure of, or attacks directed at, the Group’s operational systems and 
infrastructure. any of the foregoing, as well the occurrence of future risks that the 
Group’s risk management procedures fail to identify or anticipate, could have a  
material adverse effect on the Group, and could also give rise to reputational risk. 

Use of models; accounting matters
the Group is subject to risks relating to the preparation of estimates and assumptions 
that management uses, for example, as part of its risk models as well as those that 
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses in the Group’s 
financial statements, including assumed and ceded business. for example, the Group 
estimates premiums pending receipt of actual data from ceding companies, which 
actual data could deviate from the estimates. in addition, particularly with respect  
to large natural catastrophes, it may be difficult to estimate losses, and preliminary 
estimates may be subject to a high degree of uncertainty and change as new 
information becomes available. Deterioration in market conditions could have an 
adverse impact on assumptions used for financial reporting purposes, which could 
affect possible impairment of present value of future profits, fair value of assets and 
liabilities, deferred acquisition costs or goodwill. to the extent that management’s 
estimates or assumptions prove to be incorrect, it could have a material impact on 
underwriting results (in the case of risk models) or on reported financial condition  
or results of operations, and such impact could be material.

the Group’s results may be impacted by changes in accounting standards, or  
changes in the interpretation of accounting standards. the Group’s results may  
also be impacted if regulatory authorities take issue with any conclusions the Group  
may reach in respect of accounting matters. Changes in accounting standards  
could impact future reported results or require restatement of past reported results.

the Group uses non-GaaP financial measures in its external reporting, including in  
this report. these measures are not prepared in accordance with US GaaP or any 
other comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, and should not be viewed 
as a substitute for measures prepared in accordance with US GaaP. moreover, these 
may be different from or otherwise inconsistent with non-GaaP financial measures 
used by other companies. these measures have inherent limitations, are not required 
to be uniformly applied and are not audited.

the Group also publishes, on an annual basis, a report of its results, including financial 
statements and an accompanying independent assurance report, prepared in 
accordance with the Group’s proprietary economic value management (“eVm”) 
principles (“eVm report”). financial information included in the eVm report contains 
non-GaaP financial measures. the eVm principles differ significantly from US GaaP 
and, accordingly, the Group’s results prepared in accordance with US GaaP will  
differ from its eVm results, and those differences could be material. the Group’s annual  
eVm results are available after release of its annual audited US GaaP results and  
can be more volatile than the US GaaP results because, among other things, assets  
and liabilities are measured on a market-consistent basis, profit recognition on new 
contracts is recognised at inception rather than over the life time of the contract,  
and life and health actuarial assumptions are on a best estimate basis as opposed  
to generally being locked-in. the Groupʼs eVm financial statements should not be 
viewed as a substitute for the Group’s US GaaP financial statements.

Risks related to the Swiss Re corporate structure
Swiss Re is a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from its 
subsidiaries, including Swiss Reinsurance Company ltd. as a holding company with 
no operations of its own, Swiss Re is dependent upon dividends and other payments 
from Swiss Reinsurance Company ltd and its other principal operating subsidiaries.

Swiss Re 2015 financial Report  279

