FInanCIaL STaTEMEnTS
notes to the Group financial statements

8  Fair value disclosures

Fair value, as defined by the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic, is the price that would be received to sell an asset 
or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.

The Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic requires all assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value to be 
categorised within the fair value hierarchy. This three-level hierarchy is based on the observability of the inputs used in the  
fair value measurement. The levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined as follows:

Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group has the ability to access.  
Level 1 inputs are the most persuasive evidence of fair value and are to be used whenever possible. 

Level 2 inputs are market-based inputs that are directly or indirectly observable, but not considered level 1 quoted prices.  
Level 2 inputs consist of (i) quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; (ii) quoted prices for identical assets or 
liabilities in non-active markets (eg markets which have few transactions and where prices are not current or price quotations 
vary substantially); (iii) inputs other than quoted prices that are observable (eg interest rates, yield curves, volatilities, prepayment 
speeds, credit risks and default rates); and (iv) inputs derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data.

Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs. These inputs reflect the Group’s own assumptions about market pricing using the best 
internal and external information available.

The types of instruments valued, based on unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets, include most US government and 
sovereign obligations, active listed equities and most money market securities. Such instruments are generally classified within 
level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. 

The types of instruments that trade in markets that are not considered to be active, but are valued based on quoted market 
prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency, include most 
government agency securities, investment-grade corporate bonds, certain mortgage- and asset-backed products, less liquid 
listed equities, and state, municipal and provincial obligations. Such instruments are generally classified within level 2 of the  
fair value hierarchy.

Exchange-traded derivative instruments typically fall within level 1 or level 2 of the fair value hierarchy depending on whether 
they are considered to be actively traded or not.

Certain financial instruments are classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, because they trade infrequently and therefore 
have little or no price transparency. Such instruments include private equity, less liquid corporate debt securities and certain 
asset-backed securities. Certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, 
and the determination of fair value for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. Such instruments are classified within level 3 
of the fair value hierarchy. Pursuant to the election of the fair value option, the Group classifies certain liabilities for life and health 
policy benefits in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity, 
bid/offer spreads, and credit considerations. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence 
of such evidence, management’s best estimate is used.

The fair values of assets are adjusted to incorporate the counterparty risk of non-performance. Similarly, the fair values of 
liabilities reflect the risk of non-performance of the Group, captured by the Group’s credit spread. These valuation adjustments 
from assets and liabilities measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs are recognised in net realised gains and 
losses. For 2015, these adjustments were not material. Whenever the underlying assets or liabilities are reported in a specific 
business segment, the valuation adjustment is allocated accordingly. Valuation adjustments not attributable to any business 
segment are reported in Group items. 

In certain situations, the Group uses inputs to measure the fair value of asset or liability positions that fall into different levels of 
the fair value hierarchy. In these situations, the Group will determine the appropriate level based on the lowest level input that is 
significant to the determination of the fair value.

200  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

