“ I believe the 
outlook is  
very positive 
indeed.”

Clients in reinsurance are partners.  
Our clients regularly put us at the top of 
the league tables as best reinsurer, in all 
parts of the world and nearly all lines of 
business. We are enthusiastic about our 
clients and will continue to be so. This 
allows us to fix problems with our clients 
instead of abandoning them at a crucial 
moment. Our portfolio of reinsurance 
business is therefore superior in quality.

And last but not least: we are here to 
develop the body of knowledge available 
within the firm and share it with our 
clients. This allows us to develop better 
products with and for them and allows  
us to learn from each other. We spend  
a significant amount for research both  
at the product development level and at  
the portfolio level, supporting our capital 
allocation. It might lead to a higher 
operating cost than some of our peers 
have. But it should also lead to overall 
higher margins. No surprise. It would  
be strange if superior insight were not 
relevant to risk underwriting and 
investment decisions.

Christian Mumenthaler to become 
Group CEO on 1 July 2016,  
Michel M. Liès to retire
Finally, I must share some important 
news. Christian Mumenthaler, currently 
CEO of Reinsurance, will become our 
Group Chief Executive Officer on 
1 July 2016, and Michel M. Liès will 
retire. On behalf of the entire Board I 
extend our warmest thanks to Michel  
for his more than 35 years of service  
to Swiss Re. Throughout his career, 
Michel has lived Swiss Re’s highest 

values and been key to our Group’s 
continued strong performance. Under  
his leadership net income has almost 
doubled, the capital base has increased 
significantly and we have distributed 
more than USD 12 billion of excess 
capital back to you, our shareholders. It is 
fitting that we make this announcement 
at the end of a successful 2011–2015 
financial target period, and after having 
introduced a new strategic framework. 
We wish him the very best.

The good news is that we have a highly 
qualified successor. In Christian we have 
a candidate who can both transition 
smoothly into this new role and who 
brings an intimate understanding of our 
Group’s strategy. Christian has been  
with us for 17 years, and for nearly the 
last five, as CEO of Reinsurance, and 
therefore responsible for approximately 
85% of our revenue. He has been the 
driving spirit behind P&C Re’s continued 
outperformance and a key figure in 
getting L&H Re back on track.  
His nomination demonstrates both  
the depth of Swiss Re’s talent and the 
importance of maintaining Swiss Re’s 
distinctive culture. I wish Christian every 
success in the new role.

Dear shareholders, I hope you share my 
confidence for the future. Our strategic 
priorities are confirmed and we welcome 
Christian to implement them together 
with his team and the 12 000 colleagues 
at Swiss Re. I believe the outlook is very 
positive indeed and I look forward to 
continuing our success story together.

Zurich, 23 February 2016 
 

Walter B. Kielholz
Chairman of the Board of Directors

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  7

