Corporate GovernanCe

Changes of Control  
and Defence Measures
Upon a change of control the  
rights of the members of the  
Board of Directors and Group eC 
are identical to those of all other 
employees.

Duty to make an offer
Swiss re has not put in place any 
specific measures to defend against 
potential unfriendly takeover attempts. 
the Board of Directors believes  
that the company’s best protection  
is a fair valuation of its shares,  
and that the efficiency of a free  
market is preferable to artificial obstacles, 
which can have a negative impact  
on the share price in the long term.

In accordance with the Federal act  
on Stock exchanges and Securities  
trading (SeSta), whosoever acquires 
equity securities, which added to  
equity securities already owned, exceed 
the threshold of 33⅓% of Swiss re 
shares with voting rights, either directly, 
indirectly or in concert with third  
parties, and regardless of whether  
these rights are exercisable or not, 
triggers a mandatory takeover offer for 
the outstanding Swiss re shares owned  
by all other shareholders. 

the SeSta allows companies to include 
an “opting up” provision in their articles of 
association, which raises the mandatory 
takeover offer threshold up to 49%, or  
an “opting out” provision, which waives 
the mandatory offer. Swiss re’s articles 
of association contain neither of  
these provisions.

Change of control clauses
Unvested incentive shares, share options 
and certain other employee benefit 
programmes would vest upon a change 
of control. In such an event, the  
rights of members of the Board  
of Directors and the Group executive 
Committee (Group eC) as well as of 
further members of senior management 
are identical to those of all other 
employees.

the articles of association provide that 
the Board of Directors or, to the extent 
delegated to it, the Compensation 
Committee may decide on continuation, 
acceleration or removal of vesting, 
blocking or exercise conditions for  
the payment or grant of compensation 
based upon assumed target 
achievement, or for forfeiture. 

the mandates and employment contracts 
of the members of the Board of Directors 
and of the Group eC do not contain any 
provisions such as severance payments, 
notice periods of more than 12 months 
or additional pension fund  
contributions that would benefit them 
in a change of control situation.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  109

