in 2015 we also passed two major 
milestones in optimising the capital 
structure of our Business Units and  
the group: 
 ̤ swiss Re ltd established a 

Usd 700 million subordinated debt 
facility in November 2015, further 
enhancing the group’s financial 
flexibility (see page 52).

 ̤ secondly, we achieved Usd 6 billion  
of net deleveraging ahead of our 2016 
target of Usd 4 billion announced at 
the June 2013 investors’ day.

Based on the group’s capital strength,  
the Board of directors propose an 8.2% 
increase in the 2015 regular dividend  
to CHF 4.60 per share. in addition, the 
Board of directors proposes a public  
share buy-back programme of up to 
CHF 1.0 billion purchase value, 
exercisable until the Agm in 2017.

Liquidity
Our core insurance and reinsurance 
operations generate liquidity primarily 
through premium income. Our exposure 
to liquidity risk stems mainly from two 
sources: the need to cover potential 
extreme loss events and regulatory 
constraints that limit the flow of funds 
within the group.

The amount of liquidity held is largely 
determined by internal liquidity stress 
tests, which estimate the potential 

funding requirements stemming from 
extreme loss events. Based on these 
internal liquidity stress tests, we estimate 
that the swiss Reinsurance Company ltd 
liquidity pool, the primary liquidity pool  
of the group, holds surplus liquidity.  
swiss Re also provides FiNmA with a 
yearly report on its liquidity position, in 
accordance with FiNmA’s circular 13/5, 
“liquidity ‒ insurers”.

Our risk profile in 2015 
Throughout 2015, our overall risk 
exposure increased by 3% to 
Usd 19.6 billion, compared to  
Usd 19.1 billion in 2014. The increase 
was mainly driven by higher financial 
market and credit risk exposure as a result 
of the inclusion of guardian Financial 
services. The agreement to acquire 
guardian Financial services was 
announced on 23 september 2015 
(subject of regulatory and competition 
authority clearance). The acquisition was 
completed on 6 January 2016. As 
swiss Re applies an economic-based risk 
and solvency assessment, asset and 
liability risk impacts of the acquisition  
are taken into account in 2015. 

On the insurance risk side, our property 
and casualty risk slightly increased due  
to continued reductions in our external 
hedging. At the same time, our overall life 
and health risk decreased, mainly driven 
by the strengthening of the Us dollar.

Risk Management 
Our proprietary integrated risk model 
provides a meaningful assessment of  
the risks to which the group is exposed 
and represents an important tool for 
managing our business. it determines the 
capital requirements for internal purposes 
and forms the basis for regulatory 
reporting under the ssT and solvency ii 
for our legal entities in continental 
Europe. 

We continuously review and update  
our internal model and its parameters to 
reflect our experiences and changes in 
the risk environment and current best 
practice. 

Risk management is embedded 
throughout our business. For each 
Business Unit, we have dedicated 
Chief Risk Officers and risk experts  
who analyse and challenge business 
decisions. They apply a consistent 
Enterprise Risk management approach 
across the group to ensure a fully 
integrated view of risk, and enable 
sustainable commercial success for 
swiss Re. The independence of the 
Business Unit CROs is maintained by a 
direct reporting line to the group Chief 
Risk Officer.

swiss Re’s Risk management function  
is an integral part of our business model 
and key to the controlled risk-taking that 
underpins our financial strength. Risk 
management is mandated to ensure that 
the group and its Business Units have  
the necessary expertise, frameworks and 
infrastructure to support good risk-taking. 
in addition, it monitors and ensures 
adherence to applicable frameworks  
and also performs reserving and 
reporting activities.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  51

