Risk ANd CApiTAl mANAgEmENT
Risk assessment

After more than ten years of develop-
ment, solvency ii became effective 
across the European Economic Area  
on 1 January 2016. swiss Re has been 
actively engaged in the implementation 
process, particularly in supporting the 
equivalence for the swiss insurance 
supervisory system. The European 
Commission has recognised the swiss 
system, including the ssT, as fully 
equivalent. switzerland and Bermuda are 
currently the only jurisdictions worldwide 
that have obtained this status. As a next 
step, industry-wide public disclosure  
of companies’ solvency and financial 
condition will become mandatory in 
2017 for both solvency ii and the ssT. 
Furthermore, in China the main rules of 
the new China Risk Oriented solvency 
system (C-ROss) were published in 
February 2015. With this, China 
undertakes an important step towards an 
economic, risk-based system, similar to 
ssT and solvency ii.

Under the guidance of the Financial 
stability Board, the international 
Association of insurance supervisors 
(iAis) continues its work of refining the 
designation methodology for g-siis,  
and is elaborating corresponding policy 
measures, especially in the areas of 
international capital standards, including 
higher loss absorbency (HlA), recovery 
and resolution planning and enhanced 
group-wide supervision.  

The iAis decided to adjust its delivery 
process for ComFrame, the common 
framework for the supervision of iAigs. 
ComFrame includes a global insurance 
capital standard (iCs), which will be 
adopted in 2019 — one year later than 
originally planned — leading to its 
implementation in 2020. Until the 
adoption, the iAis might substantially  
revise the iCs. 

many countries impose restrictions on 
the transaction of reinsurance business.
The global Reinsurance Forum, which 
swiss Re is currently chairing, actively 
promotes the advantages of open and 
competitive markets, in particular the 
greater choice of reinsurers, products  
and prices, as well as benefits from 
diversification through the spreading  
of risk and increased financial stability. 
 
Political risk 
political risk comprises the consequences 
of political events or actions that could 
have an adverse impact on swiss Re’s 
business or operations. 

political developments can threaten 
swiss Re’s operating model but also  
open up opportunities for developing  
the business. The group adopts a holistic 
view of political risk and analyses 
developments in individual markets  
and jurisdictions, as well as cross-border 
issues such as war, terrorism, energy-
related issues and international trade 
controls. 

A dedicated political risk team identifies, 
assesses and monitors political 
developments worldwide. swiss Re’s 
political risk experts also exercise 
oversight and control functions for  
related risks, such as political risk 
insurance business; this includes 
monitoring political risk exposures, 
providing recommendations on particular 
transaction referrals, or risk reporting. 
They also provide specific country  
ratings that cover political, economic  
and security-related country risks; these 
ratings complement sovereign credit 
ratings and are used to support under-
writing as well as other decision-making 
processes throughout the group.

in 2015, key issues addressed by 
dedicated task forces included the 
potential impact on swiss Re of the 
ongoing Eurozone crisis, the Uk 
referendum on EU membership and the 
conflict between Russia and Ukraine. 

swiss Re seeks to raise awareness of 
political risk within the insurance industry 
and the broader public, and actively 
engages in dialogue with clients, media 
and other stakeholders. We also build 
relationships that expand our access to 
information and intelligence, and allow  
us to further enhance our methodologies 
and standards. For example, we 
participate in specialist events hosted  
by institutions such as the international 
institute for strategic studies,  
the international studies Association and  
the Risk management Association, and 
maintain relationships with political risk 
specialists in other industries, think tanks 
and universities, as well as with 
governmental and non-governmental 
organisations.

Sustainability risk
sustainability risk comprises current  
and emerging environmental, social and 
ethical risks that may arise from individual 
business transactions or the way 
swiss Re conducts its operations  
and manages operational failures. 

swiss Re’s continued business success 
depends on the successful management 
of such risks, thus helping to maintain the 
trust of its stakeholders. The group has a 
long-standing commitment to sustainable 
business practices, active corporate 
citizenship and good, transparent 
governance. All employees are required 
to commit to and comply with swiss Re’s 
values and sustainability policies.

72  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

