Broadening and diversifying our 
client base to increase access to risk
We have continued to work on 
expanding our client base through  
a dedicated focus on specific client 
segments (such as regionals and 
nationals, or r&n), lines of business 
(such as casualty and health) and 
geography (especially high growth 
markets).

in the r&n segment, we have been 
investing significant effort to understand 
the needs of our clients and tailoring  
our offerings accordingly since 2011.  
as a result, we have won an average of 
more than one hundred new P&c clients 
per year and improved the retention of 
existing ones. 

in casualty, we proactively manage our 
business according to the cycle, aiming 
for a disciplined expansion. Growth has 
been significant since 2011, particularly 
in the US. at the same time we make 
significant investments to understand 
the impact of new risks in the casualty 
book, such as cyber risks or driverless 
cars; furthermore, our liability risk 
Driver (lrD) model gives us a new  
way to systematically, objectively,  
and transparently assess liability risks.

in health, we address the needs of 
ageing populations and are capitalising 
on the opportunities from increasing 
demand for primary health products, 
particularly in asia and the US. We 
expect cessions to the reinsurance 
market to grow along with demand  
in the primary market.

Finally, we continue to expand  
geographically. High growth markets 
now account for about 20% of our 
premiums. Our focus in high growth 
markets is to establish high-performing 
local teams, further enhance client 
loyalty and support efforts to increase 
overall market penetration.

Optimising resources and platforms
The reinsurance Business Unit is 
continuously improving its operations  
and processes. We have systematically 
relocated client-facing functions to  
high growth markets, particularly asia.  
By combining client management and 
underwriting responsibility, we have 
become more effective for our r&n 
clients. We have also continued to invest 
in iT platform optimisation in both P&c 
and l&H. 

Emphasising differentiation 
Differentiation in reinsurance is  
based on financial strength, strong 
 client relationships and our knowledge 
company approach. Our financial 
strength is reflected by the ratings  
on page 54. Our close relationships  
allow us to better understand clients’ 
needs through regular exchange with  
key decision makers and tailor solutions 
specifically for them. as a result we 
achieve remarkable client retention  
and premium growth. Today clients rank 
Swiss re first or second in all markets 
except in latin america, where we rank 
third, according to Flaspöhler ratings.

Such relationships are supported by our 
knowledge company approach, which 
allows us to deliver a wide spectrum  
of products and services. We help our 
clients grow through, for example, new  
or co-product development, portfolio/risk 
analysis, catastrophe modelling advisory, 
Solvency ii consulting and rating 
exposure support. We also share 
knowledge with our clients through  
client workshops and training — in 2015  
we delivered on-site client training  
for more than 600 participants from  
over 40 countries and for more than  
800 others through elearning. We also 
provide unique systems and simulation 
tools to clients, such as catnet, a natural 
hazard information and mapping system; 
Swiftre, our online self-service facultative 
reinsurance platform; and Magnum, our 
automated underwriting system for l&H.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  35

