Financial year

Group strategy
a strategy to help meet our 
financial targets and to make  
the world more resilient.

Over the past five years our strategy has 
worked — and now we have the chance 
to build on it. 

at our December 2015 investors’ Day we 
introduced the next phase in our Group’s 
strategic framework. it has four key areas, 
each of which we will emphasise even 
more strongly to better position ourselves 
for continued success. 

The strategic framework shown to  
the right represents the next phase  
of a transformation journey that we 
accelerated in 2012, when we completed 
our Business Unit structure. Our aim  
then was to become the most successful 
capital allocator in insurance and 
associated asset risks while maintaining 
our strong balance sheet.

The framework is our roadmap for 
continuing on that path, focusing on  
four key areas.

The first area for strategic action is to 
systematically allocate capital to risk 
pools and revenue streams. capital 
allocation is at the core of our Group’s 
strategy. We allocate capital to risk pools 
and measure performance over time. 
Disciplined and agile capital allocation  
is the key to outperformance and the 
engine to pursue our strategic ambitions. 

lastly, it is important to emphasise 
differentiation. This strategic priority 
builds on what makes us who we  
are: our financial strength, our client 
relationships and our status as a 
knowledge company. We must  
continue to offer superior service and  
a differentiated and unique approach  
to our clients. 

The second area is to broaden and 
diversify our client base. Many lines of 
business face shrinking cession rates and 
competition is increasing overall. at the 
same time, new risks (such as cyber) are 
emerging while other underinsured risks 
continue to grow. We believe new client 
segments and distribution channels can 
strengthen our position as the supply  
and demand equilibrium shifts. 

The third area is the optimisation of 
resources and platforms. We have more 
than doubled our workforce in high 
growth markets since 2011 and invested 
in strengthening our iT architecture, 
adding smart analytics and cognitive 
computing to our toolset. 

We believe these four areas of strategic 
action will better position us to deliver  
on our new Group financial targets, which 
we communicated in February 2015.

This strategy is also designed to meet  
a larger goal: to make the world more 
resilient. Success in our industry means 
protecting society. That is why we claim 
“We make the world more resilient” as 
our vision for the future. We provide both 
the necessary risk management expertise 
and the re/insurance coverage to absorb 
risks and rebuild after a disaster strikes. 

The strategy supports our overall mission: 
together, we apply fresh perspectives, 
knowledge and capital to anticipate  
and manage risk. That’s how we  
create smarter solutions for our clients,  
helping the world rebuild, renew and 
move forward.

22  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

