Group Internal Audit
GIa is an independent assurance 
function, assisting the Board of Directors 
and Group eC to protect the assets, 
reputation and sustainability of the 
organisation. GIa assesses the adequacy 
and effectiveness of the Group’s internal 
control system, and adds value through 
improving the Group’s operations. 

GIa applies a risk-based approach, 
performing its own risk assessment as 
well as making use of risk assessments 
performed by the Group’s risk 
Management and other assurance 
functions (after reviewing the quality  
of the assurance work performed).  
Based on the results of the risk 
assessment, GIa produces an annual 
audit plan for review and approval by  
the audit Committee. the audit plan  
is updated on a quarterly basis 
according to the Group’s evolving needs.  
GIa provides formal quarterly updates  
on its activities to the audit Committee, 
which include audit results, the status  
of management actions required,  
the appropriateness of the resources and 
skills of GIa and any changes in the tools 
and methodologies it uses.

the Head of GIa meets at least once  
per quarter with the audit Committee,  
and immediately reports any issue  
which could have a potentially material  
impact on the business of the Group  
to the Chairman of the audit Committee.

GIa has unrestricted access to any  
of the Group’s property and employees 
relevant to any function under review.  
all employees are required to assist GIa 
in fulfilling its duty. GIa has no direct 
operational responsibility or authority 
over any of the activities it reviews.

GIa staff govern themselves by following 
the Code of ethics issued by the  
Institute of Internal auditors (IIa).  
the IIa’s International Standards for the 
professional practice of Internal auditing 
constitute the operating guidance for  
the department.

External auditor
For information regarding the external 
auditors, please refer to pages 110–111.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  101

