Secure access to business 
opportunities!
Reinsurers traditionally have access  
to the risks they underwrite through 
intermediaries: direct insurance  
companies, brokers and others. However, 
and today more than ever, some of these 
intermediaries run the risk of getting 
disintermediated sooner rather than  
later because they are unable to adapt 
their business model, disruptors are 
penetrating their markets or technology 
is changing the entire industry.

Therefore for us it is of vital importance: 
don’t let traditional distribution channels 
make efficient capital allocation  
impossible. Swiss Re has to have access 
to the risks it wants to underwrite. In  
this context we have built our Global 
Partnerships business, which is trying to 
develop opportunities with governments 
and supranational institutions. And we 
have just created our Life Capital 
Business Unit, which is underwriting 
individual and group life risks through 
and with the help of distribution partners 
or by acquiring closed life books.

Put your money where your mouth is!
A third pillar of our strategy is about 
resource allocation. Allocate resources  
to where you see the opportunities; 
reallocate radically. Again, this sounds 
trivial, but it is not. 

Take the example of emerging markets. 
Our own projections show that about 
50% of the top-line growth and 
incremental capital requirements  
over the next ten years will come from 
emerging markets. Not a big surprise if 
we think of topics like protection gaps, 
urbanisation, formation of middle classes 
and the build-up of sophisticated 
industries in these parts of the world. 

At present only about 15% of our global 
resources are allocated to these markets, 
even less than that if we think of senior 
management, research and local 
footprint. Change is required. 

Resources in our business are people 
and systems. Once you have made up 
your mind where you want to allocate  
the capital, develop them so that they 
can match the challenges. Maintain this 
even and deliberately when the margin 
pressure is intense. It will ultimately 
produce a high return for shareholders. 
Inadequate resource has never been a 
recipe for success, certainly not in our 
business of risk underwriting and tough 
investment decisions.

Be different and — of course —  
better than the others
We are convinced that the strength of 
the Swiss Re brand and reputation lies  
in a very clear development of three 
elements of differentiation: capital 
strength, client relationships and 
knowledge. These principal 
differentiation factors have been with  
our company since its foundation more 
than 150 years ago. Apparently it has 
been a great success. Let me quickly 
address what I sometimes call the  
wallet, the heart and the brain.

We are quite open about what  
we consider an adequate capital 
underpinning of our underwriting and 
investment activities. This gives our 
clients real peace of mind when they 
allocate large chunks of their reinsurance 
business with one provider: Swiss Re. 
Visibly and in addition we keep more  
free capital at the holding company  
level, at some short-term cost to you,  
our shareholders. We however are 
convinced that this strong capital 
position and the resulting financial 
flexibility is of great value in the longer 
term. It is there for the moment it can  
be deployed with great benefit for  
both the client and for you.

MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 
continued

Proposed regular dividend 
per share for 2015

(CHF)4.60

(CHF 4.25 for 2014)

6  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

