Financial year
Group results

Group Underwriting

“long-term trends are 
driving demand for 
knowledge-based  
re/insurance solutions.” 
 

Matthias Weber 
Group chief Underwriting Officer

26  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

Underwriters quantify the risk of 
providing insurance protection for 
homes, cars, ships, health expenses 
and many other risks. They determine 
the premium that is commensurate  
with each risk and set the terms and 
conditions of insurance policies and 
reinsurance contracts. They decide 
which risks are acceptable and which 
risks are not. Our underwriters seek  
to protect Swiss re’s book of business 
from exposures they feel will make  
a loss or put too much of Swiss re’s 
capital at risk. Underwriting is a 
cornerstone of our long-term success 
and one of Swiss re’s core 
competencies.

Underwriting, a source  
of competitive advantage 
re/insurance is a knowledge business. 
as the expected profitability of individual 
risks can vary widely, superior risk 
selection is key to outperformance.  
To deliver such outperformance Swiss re 
relies on highly developed underwriting 
expertise, cutting-edge capabilities  
in data analytics, more than 150 years  
of experience, and sufficient scale to 
invest in research and development,  
all of which are aimed at creating a 
competitive advantage.

Steering risk globally across all Business 
Units and product types is key to 
optimising capital allocation. Specifically, 
our underwriting teams analyse and 
predict loss, exposure and premium 
trends by portfolio segment. a central 
unit then determines the optimal portfolio 
mix by taking into account future 
expected cash flow, eVM and US GaaP 
profiles by portfolio segment, leveraging 
the advantages of our multi-line book to 
deliver more than just the capital-related 
diversification benefits. Knowing these 
cash flow, eVM and US GaaP profiles 
allows us then to formulate an ambition 
for a future desired book of business and 
create a plan to achieve it. 

