CorporATE rEspoNsibiliTy
CorporATE rEspoNsibiliTy

Overview
sustainable, long-term 
value creation serves  
as a guiding principle  
for our actions.

Swiss Re has a long-standing 
commitment to being a responsible 
company. A key element in our 
understanding of what this means  
is the desire to contribute to 
sustainable, long-term value creation. 
Or as we express it in our values:

“Taking the long-term view,  
 and playing our part in enabling 
sustainable progress — for 
stakeholders and society in general.”

reflecting the long-term view of  
our business, we seek to identify 
environmental and social issues that may 
undermine sustainable progress, and 
explore effective ways to address them. 
To do so, we use the deep understanding 
of re/insurance markets and the 
extensive risk expertise embedded in our 
company. in many parts of our business 
(eg client-facing units, risk management, 
stakeholder dialogue, logistics etc.),  
we have specific teams and processes  
to identify relevant sustainability-related 
challenges in these areas.

in other words, we have been using a 
decentralised approach to determine 
“material” sustainability issues.  
We present all these issues and our 
efforts to address them in our annual 
Corporate responsibility reports  
(the 2015 edition will be published in 
May 2016). in this chapter of the Annual 
report we use a narrower definition of 
materiality and focus on topics which  
we perceive as having a tangible link  
to our financial performance. Thus,  
our Corporate responsibility report 
addresses all our stakeholders on a wide 
range of topics they might take an interest 
in, while this chapter of the Financial 
report aims to speak more specifically  
to our investors and other members of  
the financial community.

Sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices 
Swiss Re has been named as the insurance industry sector leader in  
the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for 2015. This is the ninth time  
since 2004 that we have led the sector in these rankings. The award 
highlights our long-term commitment to sustainable business and our  
efforts to continuously and progressively embed sustainability into  
key business processes and operations.

116  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

