FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements

Prior-year development
In 2015, claims development on prior years was driven by favourable experience on most lines of business. In particular liability, 
within the casualty line of business, showed a consistent level of releases throughout the year and across all regions. Favourable 
development on more recent accident years more than offset increases for US asbestos and environmental losses. Following 
large commutation and positive claim experience, accident and health claims developed favourably, contributing to the overall 
positive claims development on casualty. This was partially offset by the motor line of business, which experienced adverse 
trends in the US on most recent underwriting years. The European motor claims were also adversely impacted following 
improvements to the reserving models for French and German business. On property, claims development was favourable 
across all regions. Similar to last year, specialty lines showed a favourable trend. Experience has been significantly below  
what was expected, enabling reserves to be released. 

A summary of prior-year claims development by lines of business is shown below:

USD millions
Line of business:

Property
Casualty
Specialty

Total 

2014

–277
–62
–499
–838

2015

–539
–571
–284
–1 394

US asbestos and environmental claims exposure
The Group’s obligation for claims payments and claims settlement charges also includes obligations for long-latent injury  
claims arising out of policies written prior to 1986, in particular in the area of US asbestos and environmental liability.

At the end of 2015 the Group carried net reserves for US asbestos and environmental liabilities equal to USD 2 094 million.
During 2015, the Group incurred net losses of USD 128 million and paid net against these liabilities of USD 173 million.

Note that during 2015, USD 76 million of existing reserves were reclassified as asbestos following a detailed review of historic 
cedent accounts by our claims department. The above mentioned incurred amount (USD 128 million) does not show this 
amount as incurred during 2015.

Estimating ultimate asbestos and environmental liabilities is particularly complex for a number of reasons relating in part to  
the long period between exposure and manifestation of claims, and in part to other factors, which include risks and lack of 
predictability inherent in complex litigation, changes in projected costs to resolve, and in the projected number of, asbestos  
and environmental claims, the effect of bankruptcy protection, insolvencies, and changes in the legal, legislative and regulatory 
environment. As a result, the Group believes that projection of exposures for asbestos and environmental claims is subject to  
far less predictability relative to non-environmental and non-asbestos exposures. Management believes that its reserves for 
asbestos and environmental claims are appropriately established based upon known facts and the current state of the law. 
However, reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes available and as claims develop. Additional liabilities  
may arise for amounts in excess of reserves, and the Group’s estimate of claims and claim adjustment expenses may change. 
Any such additional liabilities or increases in estimates cannot be reasonably estimated in advance but could result in charges 
that could be material to operating results.

190  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

