GeneRal infORmatiOn
Glossary

Insurance-linked securities (ILS)

Layer

Liability insurance

Life insurance

Longevity risk

Marine insurance

Mark-to-market

Motor insurance

Security for which the payment of interest and/or principal depends on the occurrence 
or severity of an insurance event. the underlying risk of the security is a peak or volume 
insurance risk.

Section of cover in a non-proportional reinsurance programme in which total coverage 
is divided into a number of consecutive layers starting at the retention or attachment 
point of the ceding company up to the maximum limit of indemnity. individual layers 
may be placed with different insurers or reinsurers.

insurance for damages that a policyholder is obliged to pay because of bodily injury  
or property damage caused to another person or entity based on negligence, strict 
liability or contractual liability.

insurance that provides for the payment of a sum of money upon the death of the 
insured, or upon the insured surviving a given number of years, depending on the 
terms of the policy. in addition, life insurance can be used as a means of investment  
or saving.

the risk to which a pension fund or life insurance company could be exposed as  
a result of higher-than-expected payout ratios. increasing life expectancy trends 
among policyholders and pensioners can result in payout levels that are higher  
than originally expected. 

line of insurance which includes coverage for property in transit (cargo), means of 
transportation (except aircraft and motor vehicles), offshore installations and valuables, 
as well as liabilities associated with marine risks and professions.

adjustment of the book value or collateral value of a security, portfolio or account  
to current fair market value.

line of insurance which offers coverage for property, accident and liability losses 
involving motor vehicles.

Net reinsurance assets

Receivables related to deposit accounting contracts (contracts which do not meet  
risk transfer requirements) less payables related to deposit contracts.

Non-life insurance

all classes of insurance business excluding life insurance.

Non-proportional reinsurance

Operating margin ratio 

form of reinsurance in which coverage is not in direct proportion to the original 
insurer’s loss; instead the reinsurer is liable for a specified amount which exceeds 
the insurer’s retention; also known as “excess of loss reinsurance”.

the operating margin is calculated as operating result divided by total operating 
revenues. the operating result is before interest expenses, taxes and net realised 
gains/losses.

Operating revenues

Premiums earned plus net investment income plus other revenues.

Operational risk

Premium

Premiums earned

Risk arising from failure of operational processes, internal procedures and controls 
leading to financial loss.

the payment, or one of the periodical payments, a policyholder agrees to make  
for an insurance policy.

Premiums an insurance company has recorded as revenues during a specific 
accounting period.

268  Swiss Re 2015 financial Report

