obligations. the Group’s uses of funds include obligations arising in its reinsurance 
business (including claims and other payments as well as insurance provision 
repayments due to portfolio transfers, securitisations and commutations), which  
may include large and unpredictable claims (including catastrophe claims), funding  
of capital requirements and operating costs, payment of principal and interest on 
outstanding indebtedness and funding of acquisitions. the Group also has unfunded 
capital commitments in its private equity and hedge fund investments, which could 
result in funding obligations at a time when it is subject to liquidity constraints. in 
addition, the Group has potential collateral requirements in connection with a number 
of reinsurance arrangements, the amounts of which may be material and the meeting 
of which could require the Group to liquidate cash equivalents or other securities. 

the Group manages liquidity and funding risks by focusing on the liquidity stress  
that is likely to result from extreme capital markets scenarios or from extreme loss 
events or combinations of the two. Generally, the ability to meet liquidity needs  
could be adversely impacted by factors that the Group cannot control, such as market 
dislocations or interruptions, adverse economic conditions, severe disruption in the 
financial and worldwide credit markets and the related increased constraints on  
the availability of credit; changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and credit 
spreads; or by perceptions among market participants of the extent of the Group’s 
liquidity needs.

the Group may not be able to secure new sources of liquidity or funding, should 
projected or actual liquidity fall below levels it requires. the ability to meet liquidity 
needs through asset sales may be constrained by market conditions and the related 
stress on valuations, and through third-party funding may be limited by constraints  
on the general availability of credit and willingness of lenders to lend. in addition,  
the Group’s ability to meet liquidity needs may also be constrained by regulatory 
requirements that require regulated entities to maintain or increase regulatory  
capital, or that restrict intra-group transactions, the timing of dividend payments  
from subsidiaries or the fact that certain assets may be encumbered or otherwise  
non-tradable. failure to meet covenants in lending arrangements could give rise  
to collateral posting or defaults, and further constrain access to liquidity. finally,  
any adverse ratings action could trigger a need for further liquidity (for example,  
by triggering termination provisions or collateral delivery requirements in contracts  
to which the Group is a party) at a time when the Group’s ability to obtain liquidity  
from external sources is limited by such ratings action.

Counterparty risks
the Group is exposed to the risk of defaults, or concerns about defaults, by its 
counterparties. Securities trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps  
and other derivative contracts, and financial intermediaries may default on their 
obligations due to bankruptcy, insolvency, lack of liquidity, adverse economic 
conditions, operational failure, fraud or other reasons, which could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group. 

the Group could also be adversely affected by the insolvency of, or other credit 
constraints affecting, counterparties in its reinsurance operations. moreover, the Group 
could be adversely affected by liquidity issues at ceding companies or at third parties 
to whom the Group has retroceded risk, and such risk could be exacerbated to the 
extent any such exposures are concentrated. 

Risks relating to credit rating downgrades
Ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of reinsurance 
companies, and market conditions could increase the risk of downgrade. third-party 
rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength of reinsurers and insurers.  
these ratings are intended to measure a company’s ability to repay its obligations  
and are based upon criteria established by the rating agencies.

the Group’s ratings reflect the current opinion of the relevant rating agencies. One or 
more of its ratings could be downgraded or withdrawn in the future. Rating agencies 
may increase the frequency and scope of ratings reviews, revise their criteria or take 

Swiss Re 2015 financial Report  277

