Sensitivity of recurring level 3 measurements to changes in unobservable inputs
The significant unobservable input used in the fair value measurement of the Group’s private placement corporate debt securities 
and private placement credit tenant leases is illiquidity premium. a significant increase (decrease) in this input in isolation  
would result in a significantly lower (higher) fair value measurement. The significant unobservable input used in the fair value 
measurement of the Group’s infrastructure loan is valuation spread. a significant increase (decrease) in this input in isolation 
would result in a significantly lower (higher) fair value measurement. 

The significant unobservable input used in the fair value measurement of the Group’s OTC equity option referencing correlated 
equity indices is correlation. Where the Group is long correlation risk, a significant increase (decrease) in this input in isolation 
would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement. Where the Group is short correlation risk, a significant 
increase (decrease) in this input in isolation would result in a significantly lower (higher) fair value measurement.

The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Group’s variable annuity and fair valued 
guaranteed minimum death benefit (GMDB) contracts are: risk margin, volatility, lapse, mortality adjustment rate and with-
drawal rate. a significant increase (decrease) in isolation in each of the following inputs: risk margin, volatility and withdrawal  
rate would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value of the Group’s obligation. a significant increase (decrease) in  
isolation in a lapse rate for in-the-money contracts would result in a significantly lower (higher) fair value of the Group’s 
obligation, whereas for out-of-the-money contracts, an isolated increase (decrease) in a lapse assumption would increase 
(decrease) fair value of the Group’s obligation. Changes in the mortality adjustment rate impact fair value of the Group’s 
obligation differently for living-benefit products, compared to death-benefit products. For the former, a significant increase 
(decrease) in the mortality adjustment rate (ie increase (decrease) in mortality, respectively) in isolation would result in a  
decrease (increase) in fair value of the Group’s liability. For the latter, a significant increase (decrease) in the mortality  
adjustment rate in isolation would result in an increase (decrease) in fair value of the Group’s liability. 

The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Group’s weather contracts are risk margin, 
correlation, volatility and index value. Where the Group has a long position, a significant increase (decrease) in the risk margin 
input in isolation would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement. Where the Group has a long volatility or 
correlation position Swiss Re a significant increase (decrease) in the correlation and volatility inputs would result in a significantly 
higher (lower) fair value measurement. Where the Group has a long index position, an increase (decrease) in the index value 
input in isolation would result in a significantly higher (lower) fair value measurement. Where the Group has a short position,  
a significant increase (decrease) in the risk margin input in isolation would result in a significantly lower (higher) fair value 
measurement. Where the Group has a short volatility or correlation position a significant increase (decrease) in the correlation 
and volatility inputs would result in a significantly lower (higher) fair value measurement. Where the Group has a short index 
position, an increase (decrease) in the index value input in isolation would result in a significantly lower (higher) fair value 
measurement.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  207

