Our risk governance is defined in the 
policies and standards that describe 
swiss Re’s risk management framework 
and establish risk management practices 
throughout the group and its subsidiaries 
over four hierarchical levels (see below). 

The top of swiss Re’s group Risk 
governance documentation Hierarchy  
is comprised of risk management  
related parts of the Corporate Bylaws.  
The sRl Bylaws establish the ultimate 
responsibility for risk management 
activities across the group by assigning 
responsibilities between the group Board 
of directors and the group EC. 

The detailed aspects of the group’s risk 
governance are defined in the group  
Risk policy (level 1), swiss Re’s core Risk 
management document. it outlines how 
the group organises and applies its risk 
management practices. The policy is 
owned by the group Board of directors 
and is binding for all swiss Re employees. 

On level 2 and 3, the group Risk 
management standards and the group 
Risk Category standards define the key 
concepts and tasks that comprise risk 
governance at the group or the specific 
risk category. level 4 of the Risk 
governance documentation Hierarchy  
is comprised of risk management related 
method and process documentation.

Additional governance for Business Units 
and legal entities is prepared as required 
and represents an addendum to the 
respective group or Business Unit 
documents.

Clear accountability 
in order to ensure clear control, 
accountability and independent 
monitoring for all risks, our risk 
governance distinguishes between  
three fundamental roles in the risk- 
taking process:
 ̤ Risk owner — establishes a strategy, 
assumes responsibility for achieving 
the objectives and maintains ultimate 
responsibility for the outcomes.

 ̤ Risk taker — executes an objective 

within the authority delegated by the 
risk owner; risk takers are required to 
provide the respective risk controller 
with all information required to monitor 
and control their risks.

 ̤ Risk controller — is tasked by the risk 
owner with independent oversight  
of risk-taking activities to mitigate 
potential conflicts of interest between 
the risk owner and risk taker; risk 
controllers are responsible for 
escalating relevant concerns. 

Risk-taking activities are typically  
subject to three lines of control.  
The first comprises the day-to-day risk 
management activities by front-line 
employees (risk takers) in the Business 
Units as well as in corporate and enabling 
functions. The second line of control is 
formed by independent oversight 
functions, such as Risk management 
and Compliance. The third consists of 
independent audits of processes and 
procedures carried out by our group 
internal Audit.

Group Risk Governance Documentation Hierarchy

Risk management tasks of the group Board of directors

Level 1 ‒ Risk selection criteria, Risk Appetite Framework, Risk management principles

Level 2 ‒ Risk-taking oversight throughout the group

Level 3 ‒ Risk-taking oversight for specific risk categories

SRL 
Bylaws

Group Risk 

Policy

Group Risk 

Management Standards

Group Risk 

Category Standards

Level 4 ‒ method and process documentation

Documentation on specific topics

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  61

