FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements

Income taxes
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognised based on the difference between financial statement carrying amounts 
and the corresponding income tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted income tax rates and laws. A valuation allowance 
is recorded against deferred tax assets when it is deemed more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset may not 
be realised.

The Group recognizes the effect of income tax positions only if sustaining those positions is more likely than not. Changes in 
recognition or measurement are reflected in the period in which a change in judgement occurs. 

Unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses
Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses for property and casualty and life and health insurance and 
reinsurance contracts are accrued when insured events occur and are based on the estimated ultimate cost of settling the 
claims, using reports and individual case estimates received from ceding companies. A provision is also included for claims 
incurred but not reported, which is developed on the basis of past experience adjusted for current trends and other factors  
that modify past experience. The establishment of the appropriate level of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving 
estimates and judgements made by management, and therefore there can be no assurance that ultimate claims and claim 
adjustment expenses will not exceed the loss reserves currently established. These estimates are regularly reviewed, and 
adjustments for differences between estimates and actual payments for claims and for changes in estimates are reflected  
in income in the period in which the estimates are changed or payments are made.

The Group does not discount liabilities arising from prospective property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts, 
including liabilities which are discounted for US statutory reporting purposes. Liabilities arising from property and casualty 
insurance and reinsurance contracts acquired in a business combination are initially recognised at fair value in accordance  
with the acquisition method of accounting. The Group does not discount life and health claim reserves except for disability 
income claims in payment which are recognised at the estimated present value of the remaining ultimate net costs of the 
incurred claims.

Experience features which are directly linked to a reinsurance asset or liability are classified in a manner that is consistent with 
the presentation of that asset or liability.

Liabilities for life and health policy benefits
Liabilities for life and health policy benefits from reinsurance business are generally calculated using the net level premium 
method, based on assumptions as to investment yields, mortality, withdrawals, lapses and policyholder dividends. Assumptions 
are set at the time the contract is issued or, in the case of contracts acquired by purchase, at the purchase date. The assumptions 
are based on projections from past experience, making allowance for possible adverse deviation. Interest rate assumptions for 
life and health (re)insurance benefit liabilities are based on estimates of expected investment yields. Assumed mortality rates are 
generally based on experience multiples applied to the actuarial select and ultimate tables based on industry experience.

Liabilities for life and health policy benefits are increased with a charge to earnings if it is determined that future cash flows, 
including investment income, are insufficient to cover future benefits and expenses. Where assets backing liabilities for policy 
benefits are held as AFS these liabilities for policyholder benefits are increased by a shadow adjustment, with a charge to other 
comprehensive income, where future cash flows at market rates are insufficient to cover future benefits and expenses.

Policyholder account balances
Policyholder account balances relate to universal life-type contracts and investment contracts.

Universal life-type contracts are long-duration insurance contracts, providing either death or annuity benefits, with terms that 
are not fixed and guaranteed.

Investment contracts are long-duration contracts that do not incorporate significant insurance risk, ie there is no mortality and 
morbidity risk, or the mortality and morbidity risk associated with the insurance benefit features offered in the contract is of 
insignificant amount or remote probability. Amounts received as payment for investment contracts are reported as policyholder 
account balances. Related assets are included in general account assets except for investments for unit-linked and with-profit 
business, which are presented in a separate line item on the face of the balance sheet.

166  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

