compensation of the Group eC for the 
financial year 2014. the annual General 
Meeting 2015 approved the 
compensation motions with 
overwhelming majorities of 86% and 
two times 90% of the votes validly cast. 
For the detailed voting results of the 
annual General Meeting 2015 please 
refer to: http://www.swissre.com/
investors/events/151st_annual_
General_Meeting.html

Group and Business Unit Bylaws: 
comprehensive revision 
the Board of Directors decided to  
review the Group and the BU Bylaws 
comprehensively in 2015 with the 
following aims: 1. the implementation  
of corporate governance changes which 
occurred based on the new Group target 
operating Model and 2. the alignment 
with the latest best practice corporate 
governance standards and with new 
stakeholders’ demands.

Key developments in 2015/beginning of 2016 

Board of Directors and Group EC

 ̤ trevor Manuel and philip K. ryan were elected as new 
members to the Board of Directors by the shareholders  
at the annual General Meeting which took place in Zurich  
on 21 april 2015, whereas raymund Breu did not stand  
for re-election. 

 ̤ the annual General Meeting 2015 elected  

Walter B. Kielholz for a further one-year term of office  
as Chairman of the Board of Directors.

 ̤ Mathis Cabiallavetta, raymond K.F. Ch’ien, 

renato Fassbind, Mary Francis, rajna Gibson Brandon, 
C. robert Henrikson, Hans Ulrich Maerki, 
Carlos e. represas, Jean-pierre roth and Susan L. Wagner 
were individually re-elected by the annual General Meeting 
2015 for a further one-year term of office as members of 
the Board of Directors.

 ̤ renato Fassbind, C. robert Henrikson, Hans Ulrich Maerki 

and Carlos e. represas were elected by the annual  
General Meeting 2015 for a further one-year term of  
office as members of the Compensation Committee. 

 ̤ the Board of Directors nominated Sir paul tucker to be 

proposed to the annual General Meeting 2016 for election 
as a new member to the Board of Directors, whereas  
Mathis Cabiallavetta, Hans Ulrich Maerki and  
Jean-pierre roth will not stand for re-election. 

 ̤ no changes occurred in 2015 in the composition of  
the Group eC and the roles of the Group eC members.
 ̤ as of 1 January 2016, thierry Léger was appointed  

Ceo Life Capital and a member of the Group eC. 

 ̤ as of 1 July 2016, Christian Mumenthaler, currently Ceo 

reinsurance, will become Group Ceo, succeeding 
Michel M. Liès who will retire. 

Binding votes on Board of Directors and Group EC 
compensation

 ̤ “the ordinance against excessive Compensation at  
public Corporations” (ordinance) became effective on 
1 January 2014.

 ̤ the annual General Meeting 2014 approved the required 

amendments to the articles of association with 93.71%  
of the votes validly cast. 

 ̤ In line with the ordinance’s requirements and the amended 

articles of association, the shareholders were asked at  
the annual General Meeting 2015 to approve the 
compensation of both the Board of Directors and the  
Group eC.

 ̤ proposals with respect to the following three motions were 
submitted to the annual General Meeting 2015 for binding 
votes: 1. the maximum aggregate amount of the 
compensation of the Board of Directors for the next term of 
office; 2. the maximum aggregate amount for the fixed and 
variable long-term compensation of the Group eC for the 
financial year 2016; and 3. the aggregate amount of 
variable short-term compensation of the Group eC for the 
financial year 2014. 

 ̤ the annual General Meeting 2015 approved the three 
compensation motions with overwhelming majorities  
of the votes validly cast. 

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  77

