Admin Re® 
Through Admin Re®, Swiss Re acquires closed blocks of in-force life and health insurance business, either through reinsurance 
or corporate acquisition, and typically assumes responsibility for administering the underlying policies. The administration of the 
business may be managed directly or, where appropriate, in partnership with a third party. Since 1998, Swiss Re has acquired 
more than 50 blocks of business spanning a range of product types. It currently operates in the UK, US and the Netherlands.

In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Group entered into an agreement to sell Aurora National Life Assurance Company (Aurora), 
a US subsidiary, to Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated (RGA). The sale was completed in the second quarter of 2015.
For more details on the transaction and its impact on the Swiss Re Group financial statements, please refer to Note 10.

During 2015, a new Business Unit, Life Capital, was announced. This Business Unit includes the existing Admin Re® segment  
and will manage closed and open life and health insurance books. The change in segmentation is effective from 1 January 2016.  
The Group financial statements and related notes presented in this report are not impacted. For more details, please refer to the 
Q3 2015 news release of 29 October 2015 and the Investors’ Day presentation of 8 December 2015. 

Group items
Items not allocated to the business segments are included in the “Group items” column, which encompasses Swiss Re Ltd, 
the Groups’ ultimate parent company, the former Legacy business in run-off, Principal Investments and certain Treasury units. 
Swiss Re Ltd charges trademark licence fees to the business segments which are reported as other revenues. Certain 
administrative expenses of the corporate centre functions that are not recharged to the operating segments are reported  
as Group items.

Consolidation
Segment information is presented net of external and internal retrocession and other intra-group arrangements. The Group  
total is obtained after elimination of intra-group transactions in the “Consolidation” column. This includes significant intra-group 
reinsurance arrangements, recharge of trademark licence fees, and intersegmental funding.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  173

