Convertible bonds and options 
Convertible bonds 
as of 31 December 2015, neither 
Swiss re Ltd nor any of its subsidiaries 
has any bonds outstanding that  
are convertible into equity securities  
of Swiss re Ltd solely at the option  
of bondholders. the same applied  
as of 31 December 2014 and  
31 December 2013. 

In 2012, Swiss reinsurance Company Ltd 
issued CHF 320 000 000 of  
7.25% perpetual subordinated  
notes and USD 750 000 000 of 8.25% 
perpetual subordinated capital 
instruments both with stock settlement 
(collectively the “subordinated 
securities”), which provide 
Swiss reinsurance Company Ltd  
with options to initiate settlement  
of the subordinated securities by  
delivery of shares of Swiss re Ltd. 

Options
valid exercise of stock options granted  
to Swiss re employees are either  
cash or physically settled (with treasury 
shares). the number of issued shares  
will not be affected. 

For details on stock options granted  
to Swiss re employees, see note 15  
to the Group financial statements on 
pages 231–233.

20 May 2013 by an amount not 
exceeding CHF 4 005 061.30 through 
the issue of up to 40 050 613 registered 
shares, payable in full, each with a 
nominal value of CHF 0.10. 

each shareholder may, however, at any 
time request a written confirmation from 
the company of the registered shares 
held by such shareholder, as reflected in 
the company’s share register.

no changes in the share capital of 
Swiss re Ltd occurred during 2012.

Information about changes in share 
capital of our former parent company 
Swiss reinsurance Company Ltd  
for earlier years is provided in the  
annual reports of this company  
for the respective years. 
 
Shares  
all shares issued by Swiss re Ltd are fully 
paid-in registered shares, each with a par 
value of CHF 0.10. each share carries one 
vote. there are no categories of shares 
with a higher or limited voting power, 
privileged dividend entitlement or any 
other preferential rights, nor are there  
any other securities representing a part  
of the company’s share capital. 

the company cannot exercise the  
voting rights of treasury shares.  
as of 31 December 2015, shareholders  
had registered 203 670 968 shares for 
the purpose of exercising their voting 
rights, out of a total of 370 706 931 
shares issued. as of 31 December 2015, 
337 739 705 shares were entitled to 
dividend payment.

Profit-sharing and participation 
certificates
Swiss re Ltd has not issued any profit-
sharing and participation certificates.

Limitations on transferability and 
nominee registrations
Free transferability
the company maintains a share register 
for the registered shares, in which owners 
and usufructuaries are entered.

the company may issue its registered 
shares in the form of single certificates, 
global certificates and intermediated 
securities. the company may convert  
its registered shares from one form  
into another at any time and without  
the approval of the shareholders.  
the shareholders have no right to 
demand a conversion into a specific  
form of registered shares.  

the registered shares are administered  
as intermediated securities. the transfer 
of intermediated securities and furnishing 
of collateral in intermediated securities 
must conform to the Intermediary-Held 
Securities act. the transfer and 
furnishing of collateral by assignment  
is excluded.

persons acquiring registered shares  
will, upon application, be entered in  
the share register without limitation  
as shareholders with voting power  
if evidence of the acquisition of the  
shares is provided and if they expressly  
declare that they have acquired  
the shares in their own name and  
for their own account and, where 
applicable, that they are compliant with 
the disclosure requirement stipulated  
by the Federal act on Stock exchanges 
and Securities trading (SeSta).  
the Board of Directors is allowed  
to remove the entry of a shareholder  
with voting rights from the share register 
retroactively from the date of entry  
if the entry was obtained under false 
pretences or if the owner, whether acting 
alone or as part of a group, has breached 
notification rules.

Admissibility of nominee registrations
persons not expressly declaring in their 
application for entry in the share register 
that they are holding shares for their  
own account (nominees) are entered 
without further inquiry in the share 
register of Swiss re Ltd as shareholders 
with voting rights of up to a maximum  
of 2% of the outstanding share capital 
available at the time. additional shares 
held by such nominees that exceed  
the limit of 2% of the outstanding share 
capital are entered in the share register 
with voting rights only if such nominees 
disclose the names, addresses and 
shareholdings of any persons for whose 
account the nominee is holding 0.5%  
or more of the outstanding share capital. 
In addition, such nominees must  
comply with the disclosure requirements 
of the SeSta.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  83

