of the committees and the Group Ceo.  
the agenda, along with any supporting 
documents, is delivered to the participants 
as a rule at least ten calendar days in 
advance of a meeting in order to allow 
enough preparation time. the Chairman 
may determine a Board of Directors 
meeting be held on an ad hoc basis,  
if circumstances require. 

Resolutions and quorum 
With regard to Board meetings, a quorum 
is constituted if at least either the 
Chairman or the vice Chairman or the 
Lead Independent Director are present  
in person or participate by telephone or 
video conference, as well as the majority 
of the members of the Board of Directors. 
as regards Board committee meetings,  
a quorum shall be constituted if the 
majority of the Board committee 
members are present or participate  
by telephone or video conference. 
resolutions are adopted by majority vote. 
at Board meetings, in the event of a tie, 

the Chairman’s vote is decisive.  
In the event of a tie at Board committee 
meetings, the item shall be submitted  
to a vote by the full Board. Board  
and committee meetings consider  
and discuss the items on the agenda 
incorporating presentations by members 
of the Group eC and, where needed,  
by other specialist employees or outside 
advisers. It is contemplated for every 
meeting that an executive session is  
held for discussions between the  
Board of Directors and the Group Ceo. 
Furthermore, private sessions are  
held for discussions involving all 
members of the Board of Directors only.

the Board of Directors and its 
committees can also adopt resolutions  
by written agreement if no member of the 
Board of Directors requests a discussion 
of the topic. a circular resolution may be 
adopted only, if all the members sign the 
circular resolution or answer the e-mail 
respectively. a circular resolution shall be 

passed if the majority of the total number 
of Board members (or Board committee 
members) express their agreement or 
disagreement with the resolution.  
  
each committee provides a report  
of its activities and recommendations 
following a committee meeting at  
the next Board of Directors meeting.  
If any significant topic comes up,  
the committees contact the Board  
of Directors immediately. It is the 
responsibility of each committee to keep 
the full Board of Directors informed on  
a timely basis as deemed appropriate. 
 
Minutes are kept of the discussions and 
resolutions taken at each meeting of the 
Board of Directors and its committees.

the table below provides an overview  
of the meetings of the Board of Directors 
and its committees held in 2015.

Board of Directors and Board Committee meetings in 2015  

Body
Board of Directors

Chairman’s and  
Governance Committee

audit Committee

Compensation Committee

Finance and risk Committee

Investment Committee

Number of meetings 
Average duration 
Average attendance
13 meetings
4 hours
93.7%
7 meetings
2 hours
100%
8 meetings
3 hours
100%
6 meetings
3 hours
100%
6 meetings
4 hours 
93.9%

6 meetings
2.5 hours
96.4%

Invitees in advisory capacity, in addition to members
Group eC members, Group Chief Legal officer, Company Secretary

Group Ceo, Company Secretary

Group Ceo, Group CFo, Group Cro, Group Coo, Group Chief Legal officer,  
Chief Compliance officer, Head Group Internal audit, Chief accounting  
officer, Lead auditors of external auditor, Company Secretary
Group Ceo, Group Coo, Chief Human resource officer,  
Head reward, advisers1 

Group Ceo, Group CFo, Group Cro, Group Chief Strategy officer,  
Group Chief Underwriting officer, Group Chief Investment officer,  
Group Coo, Group treasurer, Ceo reinsurance, Ceo Corporate Solutions,  
Company Secretary 
Group Ceo, Group CFo, Group Cro, Group Chief Strategy officer,  
Group Chief Investment officer, Head Group Financial risk Management,  
CFo asset Management, Global Head of rates, Company Secretary 

1  the human resources consulting firm Mercer and the law firm niederer Kraft & Frey aG (nKF) provided support and advice for compensation issues during the reporting year. 
Mercer organised benchmark studies and nKF provided support in disclosure matters. representatives of Mercer and of nKF participated in six committee meetings each  
in 2015. 

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  95

