Financial year
Market environment

Primary life

2 500 

Market size in  
USD billions
estimated global premium  
income in 2015

−5% 

Market performance
estimated global premium  
growth in 2015

Market overview
The global life insurance industry 
generated about USD 2 500 billion in 
premium income in 2015, of which 17% 
came from emerging markets. around 
85% of premium income in life insurance 
derives from savings and retirement 
products. The protection business, which 
covers mortality and morbidity risks, has 
a declining share of premium income. 

Market performance
Global life insurance premium income 
declined by 5% in US dollar terms  
in 2015 due to adverse currency 
developments. in inflation- and currency-
adjusted terms, premium income was  
up 3%. 

in mature markets, real premium income 
growth is estimated to have slowed  
to 2% in 2015 from 4.2% in 2014.  
The slowdown would have been more 
pronounced if not for the overall benign 
inflation environment, driven by the  
sharp decline in energy prices. Growth 
decelerated or continued to decline  
in most continental european markets,  
and premiums grew at a slower pace in 

20  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

2013 and 2014. in Germany, term sales 
were down 4.4% in the first two quarters 
of the year, while sales of disability 
products grew by 5.8%. long-term  
care insurance sales in Germany also 
improved. in italy, protection sales are 
projected to have grown marginally.

The savings business contracted or 
slowed due to low interest rates, equity 
market volatility, and the impact of 
pension reforms in some markets  
(eg, the UK). low interest rates have 
made it harder for insurers to earn 
enough investment income and in many 
countries, guarantees and profit sharing 
have been reduced. Savings-type 
insurance has also become more 
expensive for regulatory reasons  
(eg, higher capital requirements for 
long-term guarantees, or asset/liability 
mismatches). This has made savings- 
type insurance less attractive for both 
policyholders and suppliers. Together 
with adjusting their products and offering 
more flexible guarantees, insurers are 
introducing new concepts such as a 
guarantee of a certain return over the  
full duration of the contract, rather than 
an annual return.

Outlook
There is significant potential for sales 
growth in mortality and health protection 
given the large protection gap in many 
markets and growing consumer 
awareness of underinsurance. Downside 
risks from the modest global growth 
outlook, persistently low interest rates, 
volatility in financial markets and 
regulatory changes remain significant  
in the short to medium term. Global real 
premium income is forecast to rise by  
4% annually in both 2016 and 2017. 

canada and Japan. in australia, premium 
income contracted following robust 
growth in 2014, the weakness stemming 
mainly from volatility in investment-linked 
products and also poor performance  
of disability and income protection 
products. in the US and the UK, premium 
income returned to growth in 2015 
following contraction in the previous  
two years.

in emerging markets, premium income 
rose by an estimated 11% in 2015 after a 
7.4% gain in 2014. Growth was strongest 
in the emerging asian countries (up 13%). 
in china, premiums were up 12% and in 
india 8%, the latter after five years of 
contraction and stagnation due primarily 
to regulatory changes. Premium growth 
strengthened to 8% in latin america 
while in central and eastern europe, 
premiums were down 2% in real terms, 
led by a decline in russia because of  
the economic recession, high inflation, 
unfavourable currency moves and 
weakening credit which had fuelled 
growth before.

life insurance is a long-term business and 
new business is an important contributor 
to industry growth. new business in 
seven major markets representing  
about 60% of global premium income  
is expected to have risen by 2% in 2015 
(after inflation), following a 9%-increase 
in 2014. The more modest increase this 
year was mainly due to improving sales  
of protection products in most markets.  
in the US, sales of term insurance 
products increased 2% in the first half  
of 2015, after declining slightly in the 
previous year. Sales of disability insurance 
have improved also, while new business 
demand for long-term care continued to 
weaken due to higher prices. in canada, 
term sales recovered modestly (up 3%) in 
the first half of 2015 after a dip in 2014.

The protection business in the UK is 
growing again after a long period of 
contraction. in the first half of the year, 
protection sales rose by 3.7% following 
annual declines of close to 4% in both 

