One of the major concerns for the global 
economy stems from a pronounced 
slowdown in chinese economic growth. 
investment could also drop sharply if 
china’s debt markets were disrupted  
by large defaults. This ‘hard landing’ 
scenario would put further pressure on 
commodity prices and global trade.

The risks for europe are manifold. The 
threat of a Greek debt default could flare 
up again. coupled with the contagion risk 
to other eurozone members, this could 
put european leaders in the dilemma  
of taking unpopular actions to avoid the 
collapse of the euro. europe also awaits 

the UK referendum on the eU 
membership to be held on 23 June 2016. 
in addition, instability in Syria and iraq is 
likely to remain a serious challenge, with 
corresponding heightened concerns over 
migration and terrorism.

These risks would affect re/insurers 
mainly via adverse asset price move-
ments and slower growth potential in the 
affected markets. in addition, a “flight to 
quality” could lead to a drop in interest 
rates and exacerbate the challenges from 
the current low yield environment.

Persistently low interest rates

Policy rates set by the major central 
banks have been close to zero for about 
seven years. in this context, speculation 
over the starting point and 
consequences of the interest rate hike 
by the US Fed dominated financial 
markets throughout 2015. While 
interest rates affect all re/insurers, not 
all lines of business are affected to the 
same degree. Short-term business can 
usually be re-priced on an annual basis, 
thereby making its sensitivity to interest 
rate fluctuations marginal. By contrast, 
interest rates have a significant impact 
on long-term lines of business, such as 
life insurance and casualty products, 
where investment income is a 
significant source of earnings. although 
the timing of US rate increases received  
a lot of attention, the re/insurance 
industry remains very focused on  
where they will end up in the long run.

While recent low interest rates are 
primarily connected to the financial 
crisis, the decline in both short- and 
long-term yields had already started  
in the 1980s. a number of economists 

attribute the current low yield 
environment not only to the financial 
crisis and its aftermath but also to  
this long-term trend towards lower 
equilibrium rates. This trend is 
associated with both a decline in real 
interest rates (nominal interest rates 
adjusted by inflation expectations),  
and also with lower inflation 
expectations. However, there is no 
consensus on the equilibrium real 
interest rate nor why it has been 
declining.

While a frequently mentioned 
determinant of long-run trends in  
real interest rates is economic growth,  
the relationship is more tenuous than 
widely believed. a recently published 
Geneva report on the World economy1 
mentions other key factors. an ageing 
population in most parts of the world 
led to an increase in the aggregate 
propensity to save, some of which  
went into fixed income assets, lowering 
interest rates. another contributing 
factor has been the increase in chinese 
savings. The higher savings levels, 

coupled with china’s increased financial 
integration, led to large capital outflows 
into global financial markets. Finally  
a shift in investor preferences away  
from risky assets towards safe bonds  
is another likely driver for lowering 
interest rates.

Since these factors may persist for 
some time, re/insurers need to be 
prepared to cope with ongoing low 
interest rates. However, the report  
also mentions that, with time, interest 
rates could increase as the causes  
of the downward trend reverse.  
First, aggregate savings levels could 
decrease as the cohort of current savers 
continues to move towards retirement. 
Second, with the shift in china from 
investment and export-led growth to  
a more consumption-driven economy,  
the chinese outflow of capital into 
global financial markets may also 
stabilise. Finally, a gradual return of 
investor confidence into more risky 
assets could also alleviate pressure  
on interest rates.

1  “low for long? causes and consequences of Persistently low interest rates,” October 2015, international center for Monetary and Banking Studies (icMB) and 
centre for economic Policy research (cePr).

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  17

