an update to topic 323, “Investments — Equity Method and Joint Ventures”. The Low Income Housing Tax Credit, a program 
created under the US Tax Reform Act of 1986, offers US federal tax credits to investors that provide capital to facilitate the 
development, construction, and rehabilitation of low-income rental property. ASU 2014-01 modifies the conditions that must be 
met to present the pre-tax effects and related tax benefits of investments in qualified affordable housing projects as a component 
of income. Investors that do not qualify for “net” presentation under the new guidance will continue to account for such 
investments under the equity method or cost method, which results in losses recognised in pre-tax income and tax benefits 
recognised in income taxes. For investments that qualify for the “net” presentation of investment performance, the ASU 
introduces a “proportional amortization method” that can be elected to amortise the investment basis. The Group adopted  
ASU 2014-01 on 1 January 2015. The adoption did not have a material effect on the Group’s financial statements. 

In January 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-04, “Reclassification of Residential Real Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage 
Loans upon Foreclosure (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force)”, an update to subtopic 310-40, “Receivables —
Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors”. ASU 2014-04 applies to creditors who obtain physical possession resulting from  
an in substance repossession or foreclosure of residential real estate property collateralising a consumer mortgage loan in 
satisfaction of a receivable. Existing guidance requires a creditor to reclassify a collateralised mortgage loan with the result that 
the loan is derecognised and the collateral asset recognised when there has been in substance repossession or foreclosure by 
the creditor. The ASU provides additional guidance on when a creditor is considered to have received physical possession from 
an in substance repossession. The Group adopted ASU 2014-04 on 1 January 2015. The adoption did not have an effect on the 
Group’s financial statements. 

In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-08, “Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components 
of an Entity”, an update to topics 205, “Presentation of Financial Statements” and 360, “Property, Plant and Equipment”.  
ASU 2014-08 amends the definition of a discontinued operation and requires entities to provide additional disclosures about 
disposal transactions that do not meet the discontinued-operations criteria. The new guidance eliminates two of the three 
existing criteria for classifying components of an entity as discontinued operations and instead requires discontinued operations 
treatment for disposals of a component or group of components that represents a strategic shift that has or will have a major 
impact on an entity’s operations or financial results. The ASU also expands the discontinued operations classification to include 
disposals of equity method investments and acquired businesses held for sale. The ASU also requires entities to reclassify assets 
and liabilities of a discontinued operation for all comparative periods presented in the statement of financial position. The Group 
is applying the new requirements on a prospective basis to transactions occurring after 1 January 2015. The adoption did not 
have an effect on the Group’s financial statements. 

In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-11, “Repurchase-to-Maturity Transactions, Repurchase Financings, and Disclosures”, 
an update to topic 860, “Transfers and Servicing”. ASU 2014-11 requires entities to account for repurchase-to-maturity 
transactions as secured borrowings rather than as sales with forward repurchase agreements and eliminates previously  
issued accounting guidance on linked repurchase financing transactions. The ASU includes new disclosure requirements for 
transactions economically similar to repurchase agreements in which the transferor retains substantially all of the exposure to the 
economic return on the transferred financial assets throughout the term of the transaction. These requirements of ASU 2014-11 
were adopted on 1 January 2015 and the adoption did not have an effect on the Group’s financial statements. In addition, for 
transactions accounted for as secured borrowings, including repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions, the 
ASU requires entities to provide disclosures that disaggregate the related gross obligation by class of collateral pledged, disclose 
the remaining contractual maturity of the agreements and to provide information on the potential risks of these arrangements 
and related collateral pledged. In line with the specific effective date provided in the ASU, the Group adopted the new disclosure 
requirements for the interim period ending 30 June 2015 and applicable portions of the new disclosure requirements are 
provided in Note 7.

In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-12, “Accounting for Share-Based Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide  
That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period”, an update to topic 718, “Compensation – 
Stock Compensation”. ASU 2014-12 states that a performance target that affects vesting of a share-based payment and that 
could be achieved after the requisite service period is a performance condition, and therefore, the target is not reflected in the 
estimation of the award’s grant date fair value. Compensation cost for such an award would be recognised over the required 
service period if it is probable that the performance condition will be achieved. The Group adopted ASU 2014-12 on  
1 January 2015. The adoption did not have an effect on the Group’s financial statements.

In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-14, “Classification of Certain Government-Guaranteed Mortgage Loans upon 
Foreclosure”, an update to subtopic 310-40, “Receivables — Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors”. ASU 2014-14 affects 
creditors that hold government-guaranteed mortgage loans. The ASU requires that a mortgage loan be derecognised and that  
a separate other receivable be recognised upon foreclosure if specific conditions are met, including that the guarantee is not 

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  169

