CorporATE rEspoNsibiliTy

Our Global Inclusion Framework
our “Global inclusion Framework” rests 
on three pillars:

The first pillar focuses on “inclusive 
leadership”. We have developed 
inclusive leader principles that describe 
the behaviours we expect of our leaders 
and managers to foster an inclusive work 
environment. These are firmly embedded 
in our leadership imperatives — our 
behavioural framework for leaders that 
support our strategy, values and brand 
attributes — and in our leadership 
development curriculum. To make these 
principles tangible for all our employees, 
we have also included them in our 
personal imperatives — our behavioural 
framework for all employees without  
line management responsibilities.  
At the end of each year, their 
performance evaluations and subsequent 
reward decisions are in part based on 
“how” they have demonstrated these 
desired behaviours, in addition to “what” 
they have accomplished.

The second pillar “smashing stereotypes, 
opening Minds” tackles stereotyping of 
any kind. it centres on raising awareness 
of the “unconscious bias” that every one 
of us has and which can unintentionally 
influence decision-making and behaviour. 

Through awareness events as well as 
face-to-face and web-based training, 
employees participate in dialogues that 
increase self-awareness of unconscious 
biases such as those related to age, 
sexual orientation and gender. Training  
on inclusive leadership and how to 
overcome these unconscious biases  
has also been incorporated into our 
leadership development and manager 
training. last but not least, we have 
embedded “nudges” into our talent 
management toolkits for line managers: 
their purpose is to disrupt unconscious 
bias at each step in the decision- 
making process.  

our third pillar is “own the Way you 
Work”TM. This is a cultural change 
initiative, which gives managers and 
employees more autonomy to decide 
how, when and where work is carried 
out, within applicable laws, rules and 
regulations. our future success depends 
on our ability to create a flexible, global 
workforce that is responsive to the needs 
of our business.

126  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

