Financial year
Market environment

Primary non-life

2 000 

Market size in  
USD billions
estimated global premium  
income in 2015

−4% 

Market performance
estimated global premium  
growth in 2015

Market overview
The global non-life industry generated 
around USD 2 000 billion of premium 
income in 2015, of which 19% came 
from emerging markets. non-life 
insurance ranges from standardised 
motor and household insurance to 
sophisticated tailor-made liability and 
property covers, including specialty 
commercial and industrial risk insurance.

Market performance
Primary non-life premium growth was 
slower in 2015 than in 2014, in both 
advanced and emerging markets. Global 
primary non-life premiums are estimated 
to have risen by 2.5% in real terms in 
2015, after a 2.8% increase in 2014. 
However, in US dollar terms, premium 
income declined by almost 4% as many 
currencies weakened against the US 
dollar (see section on macroeconomic 
developments). 

in mature markets, premium growth 
declined to 1.7% from 2.0% last year. 
Western european markets slowed 
marginally despite moderate rate 
increases in Germany, France and the UK. 
in italy, premium income continued to fall 
sharply due largely to shrinking demand 

for motor insurance, while the Spanish 
and Portuguese markets are coming  
off their lows. larger markets with 
accelerating growth include Japan,  
South Korea, Spain and the netherlands.

Primary non-life premiums in the emer- 
ging markets grew by an estimated 5.6% 
in 2015, also slower than in previous 
years. This was mainly due to economic 
slowdown in latin america and central 
and eastern europe. However, there was 
strong growth in emerging asia (12%) 
and in china in particular, based on 
strong demand in motor. Premiums in 
other emerging asia markets, and in the 
Middle east and north africa, grew by 
around 6%. in Sub-Saharan africa, 
premiums were up 4.5%.

in terms of underwriting profitability,  
the US P&c industry’s combined ratio 
deteriorated slightly from 97% in 2014  
to 98% in 2015, while again aided by 
comparably low catastrophe losses, 
claims costs in motor insurance, both 
personal and commercial, and in general 
liability were incrementally rising again. 

Underwriting profitability in europe1 was 
about the same in 2015 as in 2014, with 
an average combined ratio of about 94%. 
Underwriting results were stable to 
slightly stronger across the board,  
based on a low loss burden from natural 
catastrophes and solid technical results. 
in Germany and italy, underwriting results 
in motor are moderating. This year’s large 
winter storms mostly affected northern 
europe, especially windstorm elon-Felix 
and winter storm niklas, which triggered 
more than eUr 1 billion in insured losses. 
The nordic countries in particular 
suffered from windstorm elon-Felix, 
which drove their combined ratio up by 
6.5 percentage points in the first quarter. 
Germany was also affected by the two 
storms, which in part explains its higher 
combined ratio of 98%. in December, 
several storms induced heavy rains  
in the UK and ireland which led to insured 
flood losses of around GBP 1.3 billion in 
the UK alone. 

Underwriting results in Japan and 
australia, the biggest mature markets  
in asia Pacific, have been mixed this year.  
in Japan, overall underwriting results 
improved across all lines, although  
the combined ratio in the compulsory  
motor line remains high. Underwriting  
performance in australia, however, 
deteriorated due largely to poor property 
risk (homeowners, fire & industrial special 
risks) offsetting improvements in com- 
pulsory motor. The voluntary motor and 
liability lines have been relatively stable.

investment returns for primary non-life 
insurers remain under pressure as ave- 
rage yields are stalling and operating 
cash flows are weak. eight years after  
the financial crisis, the investment 
environment remains challenging for 
fixed income securities, the main asset 
class in insurance, with low yields and 
exposure to mark-to-market losses when 
interest rates rise again. Portfolio yields 
are close to bottoming out, but even with 
market rates forecast to rise, insurers’ 
running yields will improve only gradually. 
For 2015, investment returns in non-life 
are estimated to have been about 11% of 
net premiums earned, down from 11.4% 
in 2014, and well below the 14% annual 
average of 1999–2007. Overall industry 
profitability has declined with return on 
equity (rOe) estimated to be 7% in 2015, 
down from around 9% in 2013 and 2014.2

Outlook
The global economic outlook for 2016 
and 2017 is more positive and demand 
for primary non-life insurance is expe-
cted to increase. The emerging markets 
will be the main driver with an estimated 
strong improvement to 8%–9% premium 
growth in real terms expected in 2016 
and 2017. Growth in mature markets is 
expected to slow slightly since rates are 
expected to moderate further and macro 
conditions will only improve modestly. 
Global premium growth is forecast to 
improve from 2.5% in 2015 to 3.0%  
in 2016 and 3.2% in 2017.

1  Based on an aggregated sample of large european insurers active in Germany, France, the UK, italy, Spain, Switzerland and the nordic countries. 
2   The calculation of the industry average profitability is based on data for the following eight leading non-life insurance markets: australia, canada, France, Germany, italy, 

Japan, the UK and the US.

18  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

