the audit Committee reviews and 
approves in advance all planned audit 
services and any non-audit services 
provided by the external auditor.  
It discusses the results of annual audits 
with the external auditor, including 
reports on the financial statements, 
necessary changes to the audit plans  
and critical accounting issues.

the external auditor shares with the  
audit Committee its findings on the 
adequacy of the financial reporting 
process and the efficacy of the  
internal controls. 

It informs the audit Committee about  
any differences of opinion between  
the external auditor and management 
encountered during the audits or in 
connection with the preparation of  
the financial statements.

Evaluation of the external auditor
the audit Committee, which is 
responsible for recommending an  
audit firm to the Board of Directors for  
election at the annual General Meeting  
of shareholders, assesses the 
performance of the external auditor 
annually and presents its findings  
to the Board. this assessment is based  
on the external auditor’s qualifications, 
independence and performance.

Qualifications
at least once a year, the external  
auditor submits a report to the audit 
Committee describing the external 
auditor’s own quality control procedures, 
including any material issues raised  
by its most recent internal reviews  
or inquiries or investigations by 
governmental or professional authorities 
within the preceding five years, as  
well as any steps taken to deal with  
any such issues.

Independence
at least once a year, the external  
auditor provides a formal written 
statement delineating all relationships 
with the company that might affect  
its independence. any disclosed 
relationships or services that might  
bear on the external auditor’s objectivity  
and independence are reviewed by  
the audit Committee, which then 
recommends appropriate action  
to be taken by the Board.

In accordance with the Swiss Code  
of obligations and to foster external  
auditor independence, the lead audit 
partner rotates out from his or her  
role after seven years.

Performance
this assessment measures the  
external auditor’s performance  
against a number of criteria, including: 
understanding of Swiss re’s business; 
technical knowledge and expertise; 
comprehensiveness of the audit plans; 
quality of the working relationship  
with management; and clarity of 
communication. It is compiled based  
on the input of key people involved  
in the financial reporting process  
and the observations of the  
audit Committee members.

Audit fees
the audit Committee reviews annually 
the audit fees as well as any fees paid  
to the external auditor for non-audit 
services, based on recommendations  
by the Group CFo.

Special Auditor 
Swiss re Ltd’s articles of association 
foresee that the annual General 
Meeting may elect a Special auditor 
for a term of three years which will  
be responsible for the special audit 
reports that are required by law in 
connection with changes in capital. 
Currently there is no Special auditor 
elected.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  111

