Qualifications 
the Board of Directors must assemble 
among its members the balance of 
managerial expertise and knowledge 
from different fields required for the 
fulfilment of the oversight responsibility 
as well as for sound independent 
decision-making in line with the needs of 
the business. Membership on the Board 
of Directors requires a special skill set 
including international, national, industry 
or sector specific experience. the 
prevalence of these skills ensures that 
Swiss re Ltd has the relevant expertise 
required for active involvement and 
supervision of an international listed 
company. the Board of Directors needs 
to assemble the necessary qualifications, 
skills and diversity to perform all  
required responsibilities. 

Selection criteria 
the Board of Directors defines the 
selection criteria against which 
candidates for Board membership  
are assessed. Membership on the  
Board of Directors requires experience  
in key sectors such as insurance and  
reinsurance, finance, accounting,  
capital markets, risk management and 
regulatory matters as well as leadership 
and decision-making experience in  
a large, complex financial institution.  
the mandate also demands significant 
commitment, integrity and intercultural 
communication competence.  
the principles of gender and age 
diversity, inclusion, regional 
representation, transparency and the 
avoidance of conflicts of interest are also 
considered in the nomination process.  
as determined by applicable law, a Board 
member may not have any management 
or executive function within the 
Swiss re Group.

Board members’ training 
the company aims to constantly develop 
further the abilities of its Board members. 
newly elected Board members receive  
a comprehensive introduction in order  
to gain a sound understanding of  
the Group’s organisation and business, 
allowing them to perform their duties 
effectively. all Board members update 
and enhance their knowledge of 
emerging business trends and risks 
through regular meetings with internal 
and external experts throughout the year.

Term of office
effective since the annual General 
Meeting 2014, the members of the  
Board of Directors are elected for  
a term of office until completion of the  
next General Meeting of shareholders. 
Members whose term has expired  
are immediately eligible for re-election. 

the term of office of a committee 
member is described in the section on 
the committees of the Board of Directors. 

First election date 
the initial election year of each member 
is stated in the table on page 84.  
 
Nominations for re-election and 
election by the Annual General 
Meeting on 22 April 2016 
on 1 January 2014 the ordinance 
against excessive Compensation at 
public Corporations entered into effect.  
It provides that, as of the annual General 
Meeting 2014, the shareholders will 
annually elect the members of the Board 
of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of 
Directors, as well as the members of the 
Compensation Committee, individually 
and separately, for one-year terms.

the Board of Directors proposes that the 
following Board members be re-elected 
for a one-year term:
 ̤ Walter B. Kielholz
 ̤ renato Fassbind
 ̤ raymond K.F. Ch’ien
 ̤ Mary Francis
 ̤ rajna Gibson Brandon
 ̤ C. robert Henrikson
 ̤ trevor Manuel 
 ̤ Carlos e. represas
 ̤ philip K. ryan
 ̤ Susan L. Wagner  

Furthermore, the Board of Directors 
proposes: 
 ̤ Sir paul tucker 

to the annual General Meeting 2016  
for first-time election as a member of  
the Board of Directors for a one-year  
term as part of the continued aim  
to further diversify and renew  
its composition. 

Sir paul tucker is Chairman of the 
Systemic risk Council, and a fellow  
at the Harvard Kennedy School of 

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  91

