Amounts assessed against policyholders for mortality, administration and surrender are shown as fee income. Amounts credited 
to policyholders are shown as interest credited to policyholders. Investment income and realised investment gains and losses 
allocable to policyholders are included in net investment income and net realised investment gains/losses except for unit-linked 
and with-profit business, which is presented in a separate line item on the face of the income statement.

Unit-linked and with-profit business are presented together as they are similar in nature. For unit-linked contracts, the investment 
risk is borne by the policyholder. For with-profit contracts, the majority of the investment risk is also borne by the policyholder, 
although there are certain guarantees that limit the down-side risk for the policyholder, and a certain proportion of the returns 
may be retained by Swiss Re Group (typically 10%). Additional disclosures are provided in Note 7.

Funds held assets and liabilities
On the asset side, funds held by ceding companies’ consist mainly of amounts retained by the ceding company for business 
written on a funds withheld basis. In addition, the account also includes amounts arising from the application of the deposit 
method of accounting to ceded retrocession or reinsurance contracts.

On the liability side, funds held under reinsurance treaties’ consist mainly of amounts arising from the application of the deposit 
method of accounting to inward insurance and reinsurance contracts. In addition, the account also includes amounts retained 
from ceded business written on a funds withheld basis.

Funds withheld assets are assets that would normally be paid to the Group but are withheld by the cedent to reduce a potential 
credit risk or to retain control over investments. In case of funds withheld liabilities, it is the Group that withholds assets related 
to ceded business in order to reduce its credit risk or retain control over the investments.

The deposit method of accounting is applied to insurance and reinsurance contracts that do not indemnify the ceding company 
or the Group against loss or liability relating to insurance risk. Under the deposit method of accounting, the deposit asset or 
liability is initially measured based on the consideration paid or received. For contracts that transfer neither significant timing nor 
underwriting risk, and contracts that transfer only significant timing risk, changes in estimates of the timing or amounts of cash 
flows are accounted for by recalculating the effective yield. The deposit is then adjusted to the amount that would have existed 
had the new effective yield been applied since the inception of the contract. The revenue and expense recorded for such contracts 
is included in net investment income. For contracts that transfer only significant underwriting risk, once a loss is incurred, the 
deposit is adjusted by the present value of the incurred loss. At each subsequent balance sheet date, the portion of the deposit 
attributable to the incurred loss is recalculated by discounting the estimated future cash flows. The resulting changes in the 
carrying amount of the deposit are recognised in claims and claim adjustment expenses.

Funds withheld balances are presented together with assets and liabilities arising from the application of the deposit method 
because of their common deposit type character.

Shadow adjustments 
Shadow adjustments are recognised in other comprehensive income reflecting the offset of adjustments to deferred acquisition 
costs and PVFP, typically related to universal life-type contracts, and policyholder liabilities. The purpose is to reflect the fact that 
certain amounts recorded as unrealised investment gains and losses within shareholders’ equity will ultimately accrue to 
policyholders and not shareholders.

Shadow loss recognition testing becomes relevant in low interest rate environments. The test considers whether the hypothetical 
sale of AFS securities and the reinvestment of proceeds at lower yields would lead to negative operational earnings in future 
periods, thereby causing a loss recognition event. For shadow loss recognition testing, the Group uses current market yields to 
determine best estimate GAAP reserves rather than using locked in or current book yields. If the unlocked best estimate GAAP 
reserves based on current market rates are in excess of reserves based on locked in or current book yields, a shadow loss 
recognition reserve is set up. These reserves are recognised in other comprehensive income and do not impact net income. 
In addition, shadow loss recognition reserves can reverse up to the amount of losses recognised due to past loss events.

Premiums
Property and casualty reinsurance premiums are recorded when written and include an estimate for written premiums receivable 
at period end. Premiums earned are generally recognised in income over the contract period in proportion to the amount of 
reinsurance provided. Unearned premiums consist of the unexpired portion of reinsurance provided. Life reinsurance premiums 
are earned when due. Related policy benefits are recorded in relation to the associated premium or gross profits so that profits 
are recognised over the expected lives of the contracts. 

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  167

