Risk ANd CApiTAl mANAgEmENT

Risk management
Risk management is integrated into  
the group’s key business decisions and 
promotes a forward-looking awareness 
of our risk profile.

Embedded throughout the business, 
our Group Risk Management function 
ensures an integrated approach  
to managing current and emerging 
threats. Risk Management plays  
an integral role in business strategy  
and planning discussions, where our  
risk appetite framework facilitates 
risk-return discussions and sets 
boundaries to Group-wide risk-taking. 

At swiss Re, all risk-taking activities  
are subject to our group Risk policy.  
The policy describes swiss Re’s risk 
mandate, including our group risk 
appetite framework (see page 60), and 
articulates the group’s four fundamental 
risk management principles. We strive  
to apply these four principles consistently 
across all risk categories at group, 
Business Unit and legal entity level:
 ̤ Controlled risk-taking:  

financial strength and sustainable 
value creation are central to swiss Re’s 
value proposition. We thus operate 
within a clearly defined risk policy  
and risk control framework.

 ̤ Clear accountability:  

our operations are based on the 
principle of delegated and clearly 
defined authority. individuals are 
accountable for the risks they take on, 
and their incentives are aligned with 
swiss Re’s overall business objectives.

 ̤ independent risk controlling:  

dedicated specialised units within Risk 
management monitor all risk-taking 
activities. They are supported by 
independent Compliance and group 
internal Audit functions. 

 ̤ Open risk culture:  

risk transparency, knowledge sharing 
and responsiveness to change are 
integral to our risk control process.

Controlled risk-taking
The swiss Re group operates within a 
clearly defined risk policy and risk control 
framework, which comprises a body  
of standards that establishes an internal 
control system for managing risk.  
it defines key tasks, which represent the 
five core components of swiss Re’s risk 
management cycle:
 ̤ Risk oversight of planning — ensures 
that the risk implications of plans are 
understood and determines whether 
the business and investment plans at 
group and Business Unit level adhere 
to swiss Re’s risk tolerance.

 ̤ Risk identification — ensures that all 
risks to which swiss Re is exposed  
are transparent in order to make  
them controllable and manageable.

 ̤ Risk measurement — enables the 

group to understand the magnitude  
of its risks and to set quantitative 
controls that limit its risk-taking.
 ̤ Risk exposure control — allows 

swiss Re to control its risk-taking 
decisions and total risk accumulations, 
including the passive risk we are 
exposed to through our operations.
 ̤ Risk reporting — creates internal risk 
transparency and enables swiss Re  
to meet external disclosure 
requirements. 

The Risk management function facilitates 
risk awareness by promoting a forward-
looking assessment of the group’s risk 
profile. The function is integrated into the 
group’s key business decisions, seeking 
to be a trusted partner within swiss Re  
as well as for our external stakeholders.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  59

