Convocation of the General Meeting 
of shareholders
In accordance with Swiss re Ltd’s 
articles of association, the Board  
of Directors convenes the General  
Meeting of shareholders through a notice 
published in the Swiss official Gazette  
of Commerce at least 20 days before  
the date of the meeting. the notice  
must state the day, time and place of  
the General Meeting of shareholders,  
along with the agenda and proposals,  
which will be submitted by the Board  
of Directors.

extraordinary General Meetings  
of shareholders may be called by a 
resolution of the General Meeting of 
shareholders or the Board of Directors,  
or by one or more shareholders  
with voting powers whose combined 
holdings represent at least 10%  
of the share capital.

Agenda
the Board of Directors announces the 
agenda for the General Meeting of 
shareholders. Shareholders with voting 
power whose combined holdings 
represent shares with a nominal value  
of at least CHF 100 000 may, no  
later than 45 days before the date  
of the meeting, request that further  
matters be included in the agenda.  
Such requests must be in writing  
and must specify the items and the 
proposals to be submitted.

Registrations in the share register
In recent years, Swiss re has recognised 
the voting rights of shares registered  
no later than two working days before 
the General Meeting of shareholders.

Corporate GovernanCe

Shareholder’s Participation Rights
the Independent proxy is elected 
by the General Meeting of 
shareholders for a term of office 
until completion of the next 
ordinary General Meeting of 
shareholders.

Voting right restrictions, statutory 
group clauses and exception rules
there are no voting right restrictions and 
no statutory group clauses (other than  
the limitations on nominee registrations, 
page 83). therefore, there are no 
procedures or conditions for cancelling 
restrictions and no rules on making 
exceptions to them. accordingly, no 
such exceptions were made in 2015.

Statutory rules on participating in  
the General Meeting of shareholders 
the share whose owner, usufructuary or 
nominee is entered in the share register 
as having voting rights on a specific 
qualifying day determined by the Board  
of Directors entitles its holder to one vote 
at the General Meeting of shareholders.

Swiss re’s articles of association  
allow any shareholder with voting rights 
to have his or her shares represented  
at any General Meeting of shareholders 
by another person authorised in  
writing or by the Independent proxy. 
Such representatives need not  
be shareholders. 

the Independent proxy is elected by  
the General Meeting of shareholders  
for a term of office until completion of  
the next ordinary General Meeting  
of shareholders. the Independent  
proxy whose term of office has expired  
is immediately eligible for re-election.  

the duties of the Independent proxy  
are determined by applicable laws,  
rules and regulations. the General 
Meeting of shareholders may remove 
the Independent proxy with effect  
as per the end of the General Meeting  
of shareholders. If the company does  
not have an Independent proxy, the  
Board of Directors shall appoint the 
Independent proxy for the next  
General Meeting of shareholders. 

Business firms, partnerships and 
corporate bodies may be represented  
by legal or authorised representatives  
or other proxies, married persons  
by their spouses, minors and wards  
by their guardians, even though such 
representatives are not shareholders.

Statutory quorums
the General Meeting of shareholders 
may pass resolutions regardless  
of the number of shareholders present  
or shares represented by proxy. 
resolutions pass by an absolute majority 
of votes validly cast (excluding blank  
and invalid ballots), except where the 
law requires otherwise. 

the Chairman of the General Meeting  
of shareholders determines the voting 
procedure. provided that the voting is  
not done electronically, voting shall  
take place openly on show of hands or  
by written ballot.

108  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

