FINANCIAl STATEmENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements

20  Variable interest entities

The Group enters into arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) in the normal course of business. The involvement 
ranges from being a passive investor to designing, structuring and managing the VIEs. The variable interests held by the Group 
arise as a result of the Group’s involvement in certain insurance-linked and credit-linked securitisations, swaps in trusts, debt 
financing and other entities which meet the definition of a VIE.

When analysing the status of an entity, the Group mainly assesses if (1) the equity is sufficient to finance the entity’s activities 
without additional subordinated financial support, (2) the equity holders have the right to make significant decisions affecting  
the entity’s operations and (3) the holders of the voting rights substantively participate in the gains and losses of the entity.  
When one of these criteria is not met, the entity is considered a VIE and needs to be assessed for consolidation under the VIE 
section of the Consolidation Topic. 

The party that has a controlling financial interest is called the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. An enterprise is  
deemed to have a controlling financial interest if it has both of the following:
 ̤ the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance; and
 ̤ the obligation to absorb losses of the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits 

from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. 

The Group assesses for all its variable interests in VIEs whether it has a controlling financial interest in these entities and, thus, 
is the primary beneficiary. For this, the Group identifies the activities that most significantly impact the entity’s performance and 
determines whether the Group has the power to direct those activities. In conducting the analysis, the Group considers the 
purpose, the design and the risks that the entity was designed to create and pass through to its variable interest holders. In a 
second step,  
the Group assesses if it has the obligation to absorb losses or if it has the right to receive benefits of the VIE that could potentially  
be significant to the entity. If both criteria are met, the Group has a controlling financial interest in the VIE and consolidates the 
entity.

Whenever facts and circumstances change, a review is undertaken of the impact these changes could have on the consolidation 
assessment previously performed. When the assessment might be impacted, a reassessment to determine the primary 
beneficiary is performed.

240  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

