GeneRal infORmatiOn
note on risk factors

276  Swiss Re 2015 financial Report

Market risk
Volatility and disruption in the global financial markets can expose the Group to 
significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates,  
credit spreads, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, which may 
adversely impact the Group’s financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and 
capital position. the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk is primarily related to the 
market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates.  
in general, a low interest rate environment, such as the one experienced in recent 
years, poses significant challenges to the insurance and reinsurance industries,  
with earnings capacity under stress unless lower investment returns from fixed  
income assets can be offset by lower combined ratios or higher returns from other 
asset classes. economic weakness, fiscal tightening and monetary policies are keeping 
government yields low, which impacts investment yields and affects the profitability  
of life savings products with interest rate guarantees. exposure to credit spreads 
primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes  
in credit spreads. When credit spreads widen, the net unrealised loss position of the 
Group’s investment portfolio can increase, as could other-than-temporary impairments. 

the Group is exposed to changes in the level and volatility of equity prices, as they 
affect the value of equity securities themselves as well as the value of securities or 
instruments that derive their value from a particular equity security, a basket of equity 
securities or a stock index. the Group is also subject to equity price risk to the extent 
that the values of life-related benefits under certain products and life contracts, most 
notably variable annuity business, are tied to financial market values; to the extent 
market values fall, the financial exposure on guarantees related to these contracts 
would increase to the extent this exposure is not hedged. While the Group has 
discontinued writing new variable annuity business and has an extensive hedging 
programme covering its existing variable annuity business that it believes is sufficient, 
certain risks cannot be hedged, including actuarial risks, basis risk and correlation risk. 
exposure to foreign exchange risk arises from exposures to changes in spot prices  
and forward prices as well as to volatile movements in exchange rates. 

these risks can have a significant effect on investment returns and market values of 
securities positions, which in turn may affect both the Group’s results of operations and 
financial condition. the Group continues to focus on asset-liability management for its 
investment portfolio, but pursuing even this strategy has its risks – including possible 
mismatch – that in turn can lead to reinvestment risk. the Group seeks to manage the 
risks inherent in its investment portfolio by repositioning the portfolio from time to time, 
as needed, and to reduce risk and fluctuations through the use of hedges and other  
risk management tools.

Credit risk
if the credit markets were again to deteriorate and further asset classes were to be 
impacted, the Group could experience further losses. Changes in the market value  
of the underlying securities and other factors impacting their price could give rise to 
market value losses. if the credit markets were to deteriorate again, the Group could 
also face further write-downs in other areas of its portfolio, including other structured 
instruments, and the Group and its counterparties could once again face difficulties  
in valuing credit-related instruments. Differences in opinion with respect to valuations  
of credit-related instruments could result in legal disputes among the Group and its 
counterparties as to their respective obligations, the outcomes of which are difficult  
to predict and could be material. 

the Group is also subject to credit and other risks in its credit business, including 
reliance on banks that underwrite and monitor facilities in with the Group participates 
and potential default by borrowers under those facilities.

Liquidity risks
the Group’s business requires, and its clients expect, that it has sufficient capital and 
sufficient liquidity to meet its re/insurance obligations, and that this would continue  
to be the case following the occurrence of any foreseeable event or series of events, 
including extreme catastrophes, that would trigger insurance or reinsurance coverage 

