Corporate GovernanCe

Capital Structure

existing shareholders’ subscription rights 
are excluded. the then current holders 
of the conversion and/or option rights 
granted in connection with equity-Linked 
Financing Instruments shall be entitled 
to subscribe for the new registered 
shares. Subject to the articles of 
association, the Board of Directors  
may decide to restrict or exclude existing 
shareholders’ advance subscription  
rights with regard to these equity-Linked 
Financing Instruments. Such a decision 
may be made in order to issue equity-
Linked Financing Instruments on national 
and/or international capital markets 
(including private placements to 
selected strategic investors), and/or  
to finance or re-finance the acquisition  
of companies, parts of companies, 
participations or new investments 
planned by the company and/or  
Group companies.

If advance subscription rights are 
excluded, then the equity-Linked 
Financing Instruments are to be placed  
at market conditions, the exercise  
period is not to exceed ten years  
for option rights and 20 years for 
conversion rights, and the conversion  
or exercise price for the new registered 
shares is to be set at least in line with  
the market conditions prevailing at  
the date on which the equity-Linked 
Financing Instruments are issued.

the acquisition of registered shares 
through the exercise of conversion  
or option rights and any further transfers 
of registered shares shall be subject to 
the restrictions specified in the articles  
of association.

Capital
as of 31 December 2015, the fully  
paid-in share capital of Swiss re Ltd 
amounted to CHF 37 070 693.10. It  
is divided into 370 706 931 registered 
shares, each with a par value of CHF 0.10.

the table on page 82 provides an 
overview of the issued, conditional  
and authorised capital of Swiss re Ltd  
as of 31 December 2015 and 
31 December 2014, respectively.

More information is provided in the 
sections “Conditional and authorised 
capital in particular” below and  
“Changes in capital” on page 82.

Conditional and authorised  
capital in particular
Conditional capital
as of 31 December 2015, the conditional 
capital of Swiss re Ltd consisted of the 
following categories:

Conditional capital for Equity-Linked 
Financing Instruments
the share capital of the company may  
be increased up to CHF 5 000 000  
by issuing a maximum of 50 000 000 
registered shares, payable in full,  
each with a nominal value of CHF 0.10.  
Such shares are issued through the 
voluntary or mandatory exercise of 
conversion and/or option rights granted 
by the company or Group companies  
in connection with bonds or similar 
instruments, including loans or other 
financial instruments (equity-Linked 
Financing Instruments).

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  81

