Our Sustainability  
Risk Framework

sometimes, business transactions that 
create economic value and are perfectly 
fine from a legal perspective may  
also have negative impacts on the 
environment or certain vulnerable groups. 
Furthermore, such transactions may 
damage our brand and/or reputation.

based on our long-standing commitment 
to enabling sustainable progress, we 
believe that it is important to recognise 
and address such dilemmas. Doing so 
requires a well-defined approach and the 
willingness to make decisions based on 
ethical principles.

our sustainability risk Framework is an 
advanced risk management instrument 
specifically designed to identify and 
address potentially negative effects of  
our transactions on local communities, 
workforces and the environment — 
helping us to safeguard our reputation in 
the process. The framework applies to all 
of our business transactions, re/insurance 
as well as investments, to the extent that 
we can influence their various aspects.

When the screening reveals any potential 
issues, the underwriters carry out further 
due diligence. Finally, the most critical 
transactions are referred to our team of 
sustainability experts, who then conduct 
targeted research to decide whether  
the transaction at hand is acceptable  
on ethical grounds.

This decision takes the form of a binding 
recommendation either to go ahead with 
the transaction, to go ahead with certain 
conditions attached or to abstain from it. 
if there is disagreement about the 
recommendation, the case can be 
escalated to the next management level, 
ultimately to the Group Chief risk officer 
and the Group Executive Committee.

When making these decisions, we refer 
to internationally recognised ethical 
principles. swiss re is a signatory to  
the UN Global Compact, which derives  
its human rights principles from the 
Universal Declaration of Human rights, 
its labour principles from the ilo 
Declaration on Fundamental principles 
and rights at Work, its environment 
principles from the rio Declaration on 
Environment and Development and its 
anti-corruption principles from the United 
Nations Convention against Corruption.

After continuously rising for several years, 
the number of transactions referred to the 
sbr process fell to 309 in 2015. of those 
we issued negative recommendations in 
32 cases and positive recommendations 
with conditions in 24 cases. The fall in 
referrals is due to the introduction of our 
sbr assessment tool, which enables our 
underwriters to carry out due diligence 
checks themselves. in 2015, they used 
the new tool for a total of 3 550 cases.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  123

The sustainability risk Framework 
consists of:
 ̤ Eight policies on sensitive sectors  

or issues;

 ̤ The sensitive business risk (sbr) 
process with an online assessment 
tool and a referral tool — due diligence 
mechanisms to assess our business 
transactions;

 ̤ Company exclusions; and
 ̤ Country exclusions beyond mere 

compliance with international  
trade controls. 

Policies
our sustainability risk Framework is 
based on the principles of respecting 
human rights and protecting the 
environment. Through detailed policies, 
the framework applies these principles to 
seven sectors in which we perceive major 
sustainability risks: the defence industry, 
oil and gas (including oil sands and 
hydraulic fracturing), mining, dams, 
animal testing, forestry, pulp & paper  
and oil palm, and nuclear weapons 
proliferation. (The list of key concerns 
addressed by the eight policies can be 
viewed at media.swissre.com/
documents/swiss_re_sbr_policy_
concerns.pdf)

The Sensitive Business Risks process
Each of the eight policies of our 
sustainability risk Framework contains 
criteria and qualitative standards which 
define precisely when a transaction may 
present a “sustainability risk”. in 2015,  
we introduced a new online tool which 
enables our underwriters to screen all 
transactions for their possible impacts  
on the local environment and on the  
human rights of the affected people  
and workforces. 

