Risk ANd CApiTAl mANAgEmENT

Economic Value Management
EVm is an integrated economic 
accounting and steering framework 
based on market-consistent 
valuations and defines the method 
for measuring value creation for  
all business activities of swiss Re.

Economic Value Management (EVM) 
is Swiss Re’s integrated economic 
valuation framework for planning, 
pricing, reserving and steering the 
business. Since 2003, Swiss Re has 
used the EVM framework as a tool  
to support business and strategic 
financial decisions, including 
compensation. EVM also provides the 
basis for determining available capital 
under the SST and, in the future, 
under Solvency II.

The key EVm valuation principles are 
summarised below.

Market-consistent valuations
All traded assets and liabilities are marked 
to market, based on quoted prices in 
active markets or observable inputs. 
Assets and liabilities that are not traded 
are valued consistently with market 
prices. The group’s insurance liabilities 
are valued on a market-consistent basis 
by replicating future expected cash flows 
with liquid financial market instruments. 
As the majority of the group’s insurance 
liabilities do not contain embedded 
financial market risk exposure other than 
to interest rates, the market-consistent 
value can be determined by discounting 
future cash flows using prevailing risk- 
free interest rates. if insurance liabilities 
include embedded options or guarantees 
(eg, variable annuities or interest-rate-
sensitive life business), they are valued  
on a market-consistent basis using 
stochastic models and other appropriate 
valuation techniques.

Performance split of underwriting 
and investment activities
EVm values insurance underwriting  
and investment activities separately.
Underwriting activities create value  
by raising funds in insurance markets at  
a lower cost than through other sources. 
The investment functions are assessed on 
a risk-adjusted basis. This makes possible 
a like-for-like comparison of underwriting 
and investment activities.

Closed-book approach
EVm recognises all cash flows associated 
with a new contract at inception, and any 
changes in estimates as they occur.  
in comparison, the deferral and matching 
principle under Us gAAp postpones 
recognition of revenues until they are 
earned and matches expenses to those 
revenues. EVm excludes the recognition 
of all potential future new business 
activities, as well as potential renewals.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  55

