Swiss Re’s strategic framework

i. Systematically allocate capital to risk pools/revenue streams

ii. Broaden and diversify client base  

to increase access to risk

iii. Optimise resources and platforms  

to support capital allocation

iV. emphasise differentiation

areaS OF STraTeGic acTiOn

Financial TarGeTS

Systematically 
allocate capital  
to risk pools/
revenue streams

Broaden and 
diversify client  
base to increase 
access to risk

Optimise 
resources and 
platforms to 
support capital 
allocation

emphasise 
differentiation

We have a defined target portfolio of asset and liability risks.  
risks can always be added to this target portfolio, and they may 
 also be withdrawn. 

Flexible capital allocation among these portfolios — and taking 
advantage of the diversification benefits — is what drives value 
creation at Swiss re. We aim to make our decisions based on 
capital usage and returns from each portfolio, balancing cash  
flow, economic Value Management (eVM) and US GaaP metrics. 

new markets, new clients and new risks: these are the three primary 
ways to achieve this strategic objective. We aim to generate 30% of 
premiums and fee income from targeted high growth markets by 
2020. We also aim to serve broader client segments, such as 
expanding our regional and national insurer client base and even 
expanding to work with governments and multilateral institutions. 
We can also find new opportunities — helping clients deal with new 
risks such as cyber threats or taking on different risks through our 
investments, such as infrastructure debt.

return on equity
at least 700 basis 
points greater  
than the risk-free  
rate, as measured  
by ten-year US 
government bonds.

Our capital allocation strategy requires us to attract the right  
talent and to equip them with the right resources, platforms and 
processes. reaching new markets, for example, often requires  
local expertise. For this reason our local talent pool in high growth 
markets has more than doubled between 2011 and 2015.

This strategic focus goes beyond talent and geographies. Smart 
analytics and cognitive computing, for example, have the potential 
to change our industry. Our initiatives focus on concrete applications 
with direct business impact, such as in sales and contracts. 

economic net 
worth per share
10% growth per 
annum, using 
year-end enW plus 
dividends, divided  
by previous  
year-end enW.

Financial strength, client relationships, and being a knowledge 
company are the main components of our differentiation. all three 
have underpinned our strong performance. They remain pivotal 
going forward. Our clients take comfort in our financial strength. 
This helps form direct client relationships through which we can 
deliver large and tailored transactions. as part of our offer we  
bring top talent and a deep understanding of market dynamics —  
the practical benefit of being a knowledge company. 

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  23

