FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements

Other invested assets include affiliated companies, equity accounted companies, derivative financial instruments, collateral 
receivables, securities purchased under agreement to resell, deposits and time deposits, and investments without readily 
determinable fair value (including limited partnership investments). Investments in limited partnerships where the Group’s 
interest equals or exceeds 3% are accounted for using the equity method. Investments in limited partnerships where the Group’s 
interest is below 3% and equity investments in corporate entities which are not publicly traded are accounted for at estimated 
fair value with changes in fair value recognised as unrealised gains/losses in shareholders’ equity.

The Group enters into securities lending arrangements under which it loans certain securities in exchange for collateral and 
receives securities lending fees. The Group’s policy is to require collateral, consisting of cash or securities, equal to at least 102% 
of the carrying value of the securities loaned. In certain arrangements, the Group may accept collateral of less than 102% if the 
structure of the overall transaction offers an equivalent level of security. Cash received as collateral is recognised along with an 
obligation to return the cash. Securities received as collateral that can be sold or repledged are also recognised along with an 
obligation to return those securities. Securities lending fees are recognised over the term of the related loans.

Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses a variety of derivative financial instruments including swaps, options, forwards and exchange-traded financial 
futures for the Group’s trading and hedging strategy in line with the overall risk management strategy. Derivative financial 
instruments are primarily used as a means of managing exposure to price, foreign currency and/or interest rate risk on planned 
or anticipated investment purchases, existing assets or existing liabilities and also to lock in attractive investment conditions  
for funds which become available in the future. The Group recognises all of its derivative instruments on the balance sheet at  
fair value. Changes in fair value on derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are recorded in income.

If the derivative is designated as a hedge of the fair value of assets or liabilities, changes in the fair value of the derivative are 
recognised in earnings, together with changes in the fair value of the related hedged item. If the derivative is designated as a 
hedge of the variability in expected future cash flows related to a particular risk, changes in the fair value of the derivative are 
reported in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognised in earnings. The ineffective portion of the hedge is 
recognised in earnings. When hedge accounting is discontinued on a cash flow hedge, the net gain or loss remains in accumulated 
other comprehensive income and is reclassified to earnings in the period in which the formerly hedged transaction is reported 
in earnings. When the Group discontinues hedge accounting because it is no longer probable that a forecasted transaction will 
occur within the required time period, the derivative continues to be carried on the balance sheet at fair value, and gains and 
losses that were previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income are recognised in earnings.

The Group recognises separately derivatives that are embedded within other host instruments if the economic characteristics 
and risks are not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and if it meets the 
definition of a derivative if it were a free-standing contract.

Derivative financial instrument assets are generally included in other invested assets and derivative financial instrument liabilities 
are generally included in accrued expenses and other liabilities.

The Group also designates non-derivative and derivative monetary financial instruments as hedges of the foreign currency 
exposure of its net investment in certain foreign operations. From the inception of the hedging relationship, remeasurement 
gains and losses on the designated non-derivative and derivative monetary financial instruments and translation gains and  
losses on the hedged net investment are reported as translation gains and losses in shareholders’ equity.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, short-term deposits, certain short-term investments in money market funds, 
and highly liquid debt instruments with a remaining maturity at the date of acquisition of three months or less.

Deferred acquisition costs
The Group incurs costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal reinsurance and insurance business. Some of these costs, 
which consist primarily of commissions, are deferred as they are directly related to the successful acquisition of such business.

Deferred acquisition costs for short-duration contracts are amortised in proportion to premiums earned. Future investment income 
is considered in determining the recoverability of deferred acquisition costs for short-duration contracts. Deferred acquisition 
costs for long-duration contracts are amortised over the life of underlying contracts. Deferred acquisition costs for universal-life 
and similar products are amortised based on the present value of estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are updated 
quarterly.

164  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

