FInanCIaL STaTEMEnTS
notes to the Group financial statements

Other invested assets measured at net asset value
Other invested assets measured at net asset value as of 31 December, respectively, were as follows:

USD millions
Private equity funds
Hedge funds
Private equity direct
Real estate funds
Total

2014 
Fair value
710
344
109
203
1 366

2015 
Fair value
686
135
121
203
1 145

Unfunded 
commitments
150

57
207

Redemption frequency 
(if currently eligible)
non-redeemable
redeemable1
non-redeemable
non-redeemable

Redemption  
notice period
n.a.
45‒95 days2
n.a.
n.a.

1  The redemption frequency varies by position.
2  Cash distribution can be delayed for an extended period depending on the sale of the underlyings.

The hedge fund investments employ a variety of strategies, including global macro, relative value, event-driven and long/short 
equity across various asset classes.

The private equity direct portfolio consists of equity and equity-like investments directly in other companies. These investments 
have no contractual term and are generally held based on financial or strategic intent.

Private equity and real estate funds generally have limitations imposed on the amount of redemptions from the fund during the 
redemption period due to illiquidity of the underlying investments. Fees may apply for redemptions or transferring of interest to 
other parties. Distributions are expected to be received from these funds as the underlying assets are liquidated over the life of 
the fund, which is generally from 10 to 12 years.

The redemption frequency of hedge funds varies depending on the manager as well as the nature of the underlying product. 
additionally, certain funds may impose lock-up periods and redemption gates as defined in the terms of the individual  
investment agreement.

Fair value option
The fair value option under the Financial Instruments Topic permits the choice to measure specified financial assets and liabilities 
at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument basis.

The Group elected the fair value option for positions in the following line items in the balance sheet:

Other invested assets 
The Group elected the fair value option for certain investments classified as equity method investees within other invested assets 
in the balance sheet. The Group applied the fair value option, as the investments are managed on a fair value basis. The changes 
in fair value of these elected investments are recorded in earnings.

Funds held by ceding companies 
For operational efficiencies, the Group elected the fair value option for funds held by the cedent under three of its reinsurance 
agreements. The assets are carried at fair value and changes in fair value are reported as a component of earnings. 

Liabilities for life and health policy benefits 
The Group elected the fair value option for existing GMDB reserves related to certain variable annuity contracts which are 
classified as universal life-type contracts. The Group has applied the fair value option, as the equity risk associated with  
those contracts is managed on a fair value basis and it is economically hedged with derivative options in the market.

208  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

