Operational risk
Operational risk represents the potential 
economic, reputational or regulatory 
impact of inadequate or failed internal 
processes, people and systems, or from 
external events. Operational risks include 
legal and compliance risks and the risk of 
a material misstatement in swiss Re’s 
financial reporting. 

Operational risk is inherent within 
swiss Re’s business processes.  
As the company does not receive an 
explicit financial return for such risks,  
the approach to managing operational 
risk differs from the approach applied  
to other risk classes. The purpose of 
operational risk management is not to 
eliminate operational risks but rather  
to identify and assess them, in order to 
cost-effectively manage risks that exceed 
swiss Re’s tolerance for operational 
losses. 

The group’s framework for mitigating 
operational risk is based on its three  
lines of defence, assigning primary 
responsibility for identifying and 
managing risks to individual risk takers 
(first line of defence), with independent 
oversight and control by the second  
(Risk management and Compliance)  
and third line of defence (group internal 
Audit). This approach is designed to 
achieve a strong, coherent and group-
wide operational risk culture built on the 
overriding principles of ownership and 
accountability.

management is responsible for assessing 
operational risks based on a centrally 
coordinated methodology. members of 
swiss Re’s group Executive Committee 
are required to assess and certify the 
effectiveness of the internal control 
system for their respective function or 

unit on a quarterly basis. All operational 
losses and incidents are reported and 
tracked in a central system to ensure that 
they are resolved as well as to avoid the 
recurrence of the same or similar events.

Strategic risk
strategic risk represents the possibility 
that poor strategic decision-making, 
execution, or response to industry 
changes or competitor actions could 
harm swiss Re’s competitive position  
and thus its franchise value.

Overall responsibility for managing 
strategic risk lies with swiss Re’s Board of 
directors, which establishes the group’s 
overall strategy. The Board of directors of 
the holding companies of the respective 
Business Units are responsible for the 
strategic risk inherent in their specific 
strategy development and execution. 

strategic risks are addressed by 
examining multi-year scenarios, 
considering the related risks, as well as 
monitoring the implementation of the 
chosen strategy year-by-year in terms  
of the annual business plan.

As part of their independent oversight 
role, Risk management, Compliance and 
group internal Audit are responsible for 
controlling the risk-taking arising from  
the implementation of the strategy.

Regulatory risk
Regulatory risk represents the potential 
impact of changes in the regulatory and 
supervisory regimes of the jurisdictions, 
in which swiss Re operates. 

swiss Re is strongly engaged in the 
regulatory debate, striving to mitigate 
potentially negative impacts while 
supporting reforms that could enhance 

the overall health of the sector, facilitate 
convergence of regulatory standards or 
generate business opportunities.

Regulatory developments and related 
risks that may affect swiss Re and its 
Business Units are monitored as part of 
regular oversight activities and reported 
to the executive management and Board 
of directors at group, Business Unit and 
legal entity level in regular risk reports. 

in 2015, the global regulatory agenda 
continued to accelerate. governments 
and regulators rolled out new policies  
and conducted numerous consultations  
and field tests on regulations with direct 
impact on the insurance sector. many 
reform proposals reflect the financial 
supervision agenda set by the g-20, 
which includes a focus on internationally 
active insurance groups (iAigs) and 
global systemically important insurers 
(g-siis). Furthermore, regulators are 
increasing their work on compliance  
and market conduct issues.

swiss Re is actively engaged in dialogue 
on these initiatives and supports 
regulatory convergence as well as 
increased application of economic and 
risk-based principles. At the same time, 
we share the broad concerns of the 
insurance industry around the cumulative 
and cross-sectoral impacts of the 
reforms. some proposed regulations are 
more appropriate for the banking industry 
and do not adequately take into account 
the nature and benefits of insurance and 
reinsurance. Regulatory fragmentation  
is another key concern — particularly  
in Europe, with the challenges in 
introducing solvency ii, but also in the 
context of cross-border business and 
protectionist measures introduced in 
several growth and mature markets.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  71

