Particularly amazing is that the  
high margins are achieved despite 
continuously decreasing investment 
returns which in our business have 
always been an important contributor  
to margins. Central banks’ extremely 
easy monetary policies in our main 
markets are certainly a challenge for  
an industry which carries large balance 
sheets full of financial assets.

What leaves me perplexed is, in addition, 
that our clients (the insurance industry 
and large corporate clients) are not 
taking advantage of this market. Quite 
the opposite: the lower prices get, the 
less reinsurance cover they buy. This  
is a period of high uncertainty (just  
to mention some: climate change, 
geopolitical security challenges, 
technology developments with huge 
consequences, economic growth is  
very unstable, and financial markets face 
the biggest monetary policy experiment 
ever). So what should a company like 
Swiss Re do in this situation? 

Just to avoid any misunderstanding:  
we are clearly positive about the 
longer-term prospects for our business. 
Many trends in the world — in society,  
in science and in the economy — are 
positive for demand for our business:  
risk underwriting. But we have to 
successfully deal with important adverse 
forces in the short term.

Therefore we have presented an update 
last December on the strategic direction 
and priorities which should allow us both 
to succeed in the short term and not lose 
sight of long-term strategic direction.

Be quick on your feet!
In risk underwriting and in asset 
management, value is created by 
allocating capital to where pricing 
inefficiencies can be detected and 
exploited. There is nothing new in this 
really. The present situation, however, 
requires us to identify inefficient pricing 
in the risk markets quickly and react 
decisively by either investing or, more 
likely at present, withdrawing capital. 
Doing this systematically will move  
the needle. 

Capital allocation matters, we all know 
that. But you have to be in a position to 
actually execute on your analysis. In this 
respect the reinsurance industry is in a 
better situation than primary insurers, 
who have to invest significantly in 
building the infrastructure in markets 
they operate in. Their flexibility is limited. 
Reinsurance on the other hand can react 
fairly quickly, not only on the asset side, 
but also on the underwriting side of the 
house. So we’ll aim to take advantage  
of this and be quick on our feet.

Of course we spend a lot of time 
researching investible ideas in all our 
businesses. Sometimes with more 
success (like the acquisition of the 
Guardian life portfolio last year), 
sometimes with less … and if we don’t 
find a good place to invest, then we can 
also distribute more money back to you. 
To some degree that has been the case 
this year, so we plan to propose a regular 
dividend of CHF 4.60 per share, as well 
as a new share buy-back programme  
of up to CHF 1 billion. 

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  5

