Strengthening earthquake  
resilience in Turkey
in Turkey, we supported the Turkish 
Catastrophe insurance pool (TCip) to 
further improve insurance protection 
against earthquakes in istanbul. With a 
population of 14 million, the metropolis 
generates a significant share of Turkey’s 
GDp while living under the constant 
threat of severe earthquakes.

originally set up in response to the strong 
Kocaeli and Düzce earthquakes of 1999, 
TCip has done much over the years to 
improve insurance protection in the 
country. in addition to the support we 
provide through traditional reinsurance,  
in 2015 swiss re Capital Markets 
co-structured a UsD 100 million 
catastrophe bond sponsored by the TCip. 
Covering istanbul’s large metropolitan 
area, the three-year bond has a 
parametric trigger that will pay out if  
the specified earthquake conditions are  
met. it was well received by investors  
and ensures that TCip will have access  
to additional reconstruction funds in the 
event of a major earthquake.

Supporting the African Risk Capacity
As a provider of reinsurance capacity  
and expertise, we helped to launch the 
African risk Capacity (ArC) in 2014,  
the continent’s first parametric natural 
disaster insurance pool. it offers 
governments insurance protection 
against drought, which poses a recurring 
threat in large parts of Africa and puts the 
livelihoods of millions of citizens at risk.

We also signed a Memorandum  
of Cooperation with the provincial  
government of Heilongjiang on the future 
roll out of a pilot index-based insurance 
programmes covering natural disaster 
risks to its agricultural sector. This builds 
on previous efforts we have undertaken 
to improve insurance protection in 
Heilongjiang, which, as China’s biggest 
crop producer, is key to its food security.

Protecting Vietnamese  
farmers against livestock loss
We also helped to relaunch an important 
agricultural insurance pilot in Vietnam.  
it will protect the livelihoods of poor 
smallholder farmers in the two provinces  
of Vinh phuc and Ha Giang by insuring 
them against the effects a major natural 
catastrophe or disease may have on  
their livestock. in total, the scheme  
covers more than 150 000 head of 
cattle and buffalo.

To develop a sustainable product that 
meets actual needs, the scheme has 
pursued a holistic approach from the 
beginning, involving all key stakeholders 
in a public-private partnership. 
stakeholders include various 
government ministries, the Vietnam 
National reinsurance Corporation (in the 
role of aggregator and bridge between 
the government and local insurers),  
local  insurers and their branch offices, 
as well as local people’s committees  
and authorities. The scheme has got off 
to a promising start and the intention is 
to expand it rapidly to other provinces.

Through ArC’s in-house risk modelling 
platform, Africa RiskView, the partici-
pating governments can assess the 
drought risk they face and decide how 
much they want to insure at what loss 
threshold. based on satellite rainfall data, 
payouts are then made automatically  
to the governments when the agreed 
drought thresholds are exceeded.  
To take part in the scheme, countries 
need to have contingency plans in place 
that show how payouts will be used  
to support the affected population.

in its initial 2014/2015 season, ArC 
offered drought insurance for a total of 
UsD 129 million to four governments: 
Kenya, Mauritania, Niger and senegal. 
less than a year into the programme,  
the latter three received payouts totaling 
more than UsD 26 million, following  
a severe drought in the sahel. in the 
2015/16 season, further countries  
joined the risk pool, thereby increasing 
total coverage.

Helping to develop insurance  
markets in China
Throughout 2015, we continued to  
take an active role in the expanding  
insurance markets of China. For example,  
we helped to develop China’s first  
weather index insurance programme  
to protect cotton production against low  
temperatures. it was launched as a pilot 
in the Xinjiang region, which grows 60% 
of the country’s cotton. While perils such  
as drought, hail and wind are covered  
by a government-subsidised agricultural 
insurance programme, this has not  
been the case for yield losses due to  
low temperatures. if the pilot providing 
protection of rMb 7.6 million 
(UsD 1.2 million) proves to be effective,  
it will be expanded to the whole region.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  121

