Insurance-linked and credit-linked securitisations
The insurance-linked and credit-linked securitisations transfer pre-existing insurance or credit risk to the capital markets through  
the issuance of insurance-linked or credit-linked securities. In insurance-linked securitisations, the securitisation vehicle assumes  
the insurance risk from a sponsor through insurance or derivative contracts. In credit-linked securitisations, the securitisation 
vehicle assumes the credit risk from a sponsor through credit default swaps. The securitisation vehicle generally retains the 
issuance proceeds as collateral. The collateral held predominantly consists of investment-grade securities.

Typically, the variable interests held by the Group arise through ownership of insurance-linked and credit-linked securities,  
in which case maximum loss equals to the Group’s investment balance. 

Generally, the activities of a securitisation vehicle are pre-determined at formation. There are substantially no ongoing activities 
during the life of the VIE that could significantly impact the economic performance of the vehicle. Consequently, the main focus  
to identify the primary beneficiary is on the activities performed and decisions made when the VIE was designed. 

Life and health funding vehicles
The Group participates in certain structured transactions that retrocede longevity and mortality risks to captive reinsurers with 
an aim to provide regulatory capital credit to a transaction sponsor through creation of funding notes by a funding vehicle which  
is generally considered a VIE. The Group’s participation in these transactions is generally limited to providing contingent funding 
support via a financial contract to a funding vehicle, which represents a potentially significant variable interest. The Group does  
not have power to direct activities of the funding vehicles and therefore is not a primary beneficiary of the funding vehicles in 
these transactions. The Group’s maximum exposure in these transactions equals either the total contract notional or funding 
notes issued by the vehicle, depending on the specific contractual arrangements.

Swaps in trusts
The Group provides risk management services to certain asset securitisation trusts which qualify as VIEs. As the involvement of  
the Group is limited to interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives, it does not have power to direct any activities of the trusts  
and therefore does not qualify as primary beneficiary of any of these trusts. These activities are in run-off.

Debt financing vehicles
Debt financing vehicles issue preference shares or loan notes to provide the Group with funding. The Group is partially exposed  
to the asset risk by holding equity rights or by protecting some of the assets held by the VIEs via guarantees or derivative contracts.  
The assets held by the VIEs consist primarily of investment-grade securities, but also structured products, hedge fund units  
and derivatives.

The Group consolidates a debt financing vehicle as it has power over the investment management in the vehicle, which is 
considered to be the activity that most significantly impacts the entities’ economic performance. In addition, the Group absorbs  
the variability of the investment return so that both criteria for a controlling financial interest are met.

Investment vehicles
Investment vehicles are private equity limited partnerships, in which the Group is invested as part of its investment strategy. 
Typically, the Group’s variable interests arise through limited partner ownership interests in the vehicles. The Group does not  
own the general partners of the limited partnerships, and does not have any significant kick-out or participating rights. Therefore  
the Group lacks power over the relevant activities of the vehicles and, consequently, does not qualify as the primary beneficiary.  
The Group is exposed to losses when the values of the investments held by the vehicles decrease. The maximum exposure to  
loss equals the carrying amount of the ownership interest.

Other
The VIEs in this category were created for various purposes. Generally, the Group is exposed to the asset risk of the VIEs by holding 
an equity stake in the VIE or by guaranteeing a part or the entire asset value to third-party investors. A significant portion of the 
Group’s exposure is either retroceded or hedged. The assets held by the VIEs consist mainly of residential real estate and other.

The Group did not provide financial or other support to any VIEs during 2015 that it was not previously contractually required  
to provide.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  241

