reinsurance non-life

 170

Market size in  
USD billions
estimated global premium income  
in 2015

−5% 

Market performance
estimated global premium growth  
in 2015

Market overview
Global non-life reinsurance premiums  
in 2015 totalled about USD 170 billion, 
26% of which stemmed from ceding 
companies in emerging markets.  
in general, reinsurance demand is a 
function of the size and capital resources 
of primary insurance companies, as well 
as of the risk profile of the insurance 
products provided.

Market performance
non-life reinsurance premium growth 
was about -5% in US dollar terms, 
impacted mainly by adverse currency 
developments. However even in real 
terms, revenue growth was strongly 
limited by soft reinsurance market 
conditions and weak premium growth  
in the primary market (see above).
reinsurance prices have been softening 
since US property catastrophe rates 
started to weaken in mid-2013. This trend 
has since spilled over into other lines of 
business. in general, rates in casualty 
have been more stable than in property.

in contrast, the industry saw a fourth year 
of strong underwriting results amidst  
an absence of large natural catastrophe 
losses. Preliminary data indicate a 
combined ratio of around 90% for 2015. 
However, this does not reflect underlying 
underwriting profitability, because natural 
catastrophe losses have been lower than 
anticipated and the claims ratio has been 
reduced by positive reserve releases  
from redundant reserves for prior years’ 
claims.3 excluding these factors, the 
underlying combined ratio would be 
around 100% for 2015. 

One important source of capital in the 
non-life reinsurance segment and a 
contributor to the softening of the market 
has been the expansion of alternative 
capacity (ac) into the peak risk segment 
of the industry. By end of 2015, 
aggregate capacity of ac amounted to 
USD 65–70 billion, equivalent to a 16% 
share of the global property catastrophe 
market. However, after three years of 
rapid expansion, the development of ac 
moderated, as risk spreads declined in 
parallel with the softening of rates in the 
traditional sector.

Outlook
real premium growth in the non-life 
reinsurance sector is expected to 
weaken in 2016. Mature markets are 
expected to be impacted by the current 
rate softening. in the emerging markets 
(with the exception of china), premium 
growth is expected to improve on  
the back of macroeconomic recovery, 
particularly in latin america. in china, 
reinsurance demand is expected to 
decline following the introduction  
of c-rOSS, its new solvency regime.  
For 2017, a recovery of the growth 
trend is expected, driven by stronger 
sales in primary insurance in all regions.

Given the strong erosion of profit 
margins over the last two years, 
property catastrophe reinsurance rates 
are close to bottoming out. across lines 
of business, the softening of average 
rates is expected to moderate.  
For casualty and specialty lines, 
significant differences in pricing 
developments by market and line  
of business are expected.

The investment environment for 
reinsurers is the same as it is for insurers: 
challenging. The industry achieved  
a mere 3% in its average annualised 
investment yield in 2015, down from 
2014. nevertheless, based on the strong 
underwriting results, an overall rOe of 
around 13% was achieved for non-life 
reinsurance for 2015. adjusted for the 
special factors that boost the 
underwriting result such as low natural 
catastrophe losses and reserve releases, 
the average rOe would be around 
6%-7%.

The reinsurance industry’s capital base 
remains strong. The capital position of 
global reinsurers, the traditional source  
of capital, weakened by 6% in the first 
half of 2015. The main reasons were 
currency fluctuations, which contributed 
to a decline in US dollar-denominated 
reinsurance capital, continued strong 
capital management, which returned 
much of the industry’s net income to 
shareholders, and unrealised capital 
losses on bond and equity portfolios. 
comparing capital and premium 
developments in non-life reinsurance 
shows that premiums — as a proxy for 
insured exposures — have roughly traced 
capital development since 2009. capital 
growth has been managed increasingly 
via dividend payments and share 
buy-back programmes in recent years. 

3  claims reserve releases lower the amount of claims incurred which are booked in a certain financial year, thus positively impacting underwriting results and net income. 

claims reserve additions add to the reported claims burden in a financial year, with the opposite effect on the P&l. For a more detailed discussion,  
see also http://media.swissre.com/documents/sigma4_2014_en.pdf

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  19

