Modifications of insurance and reinsurance contracts
The Group accounts for modifications of insurance and reinsurance contracts that result in a substantially unchanged contract as 
a continuation of the replaced contract. The associated deferred acquisition costs and present value of future profits (PVFP) will 
continue to be amortised. The Group accounts for modifications of insurance and reinsurance contracts that result in a substantially 
changed contract as an extinguishment of the replaced contract. The associated deferred acquisition costs or PVFP are written 
off immediately through income and any new deferrable costs associated with the replacement contract are deferred.

Business combinations
The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. This method allocates the cost of the acquired 
entity to the assets and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.

Admin Re® blocks of business can be acquired in different legal forms, either through an acquisition of an entity’s share capital 
or through a reinsurance transaction. The Group’s policy is to treat these transactions consistently regardless of the legal form of 
the acquisition. Accordingly, the Group records the acquired assets and liabilities directly to the balance sheet. Premiums, life and 
health benefits and other income statement items are not recorded in the income statement on the date of the acquisition.

The underlying assets and liabilities acquired are subsequently accounted for according to the relevant GAAP guidance.  
This includes specific requirements applicable to subsequent accounting for assets and liabilities recognised as part of the 
acquisition method of accounting, including present value of future profits, goodwill and other intangible assets.

Acquired present value of future profits
The acquired present value of future profits (PVFP) of business in force is recorded in connection with the acquisition of life  
and/or health business. The initial value is determined actuarially by discounting estimated future gross profits as a measure of 
the value of business acquired. The resulting asset is amortised on a constant yield basis over the expected revenue recognition 
period of the business acquired, generally over periods ranging up to 30 years, with the accrual of interest added to the 
unamortised balance at the earned rate. The earned rate corresponds to either the current earned rate or the original earned rate 
depending on the business written. The rate is consistently applied for the entire life of the applicable business. For universal-life 
and similar products, PVFP is amortised in line with estimated gross profits, and estimated gross profits are updated quarterly. 
The carrying value of PVFP is reviewed periodically for indicators of impairment in value. Adjustments to reflect impairment in 
value are recognised in earnings during the period in which the determination of impairment is made or in other comprehensive 
income for shadow loss recognition.

Goodwill
The excess of the purchase price of acquired businesses over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired is recorded as 
goodwill, which is reviewed periodically for indicators of impairment in value. Adjustments to reflect impairment in value are 
recognised in earnings in the period in which the determination of impairment is made.

Other assets 
Other assets include deferred expenses on retroactive reinsurance, prepaid reinsurance premiums, receivables related to investing 
activities, real estate for own use, other classes of property, plant and equipment, accrued income, certain intangible assets and 
prepaid assets. 

The excess of estimated liabilities for claims and claim adjustment expenses payable over consideration received in respect of 
retroactive property and casualty reinsurance contracts is recorded as a deferred expense. The deferred expense on retroactive 
reinsurance contracts is amortised through earnings over the expected claims-paying period.

Real estate for own use as well as other classes of property, plant and equipment are carried at depreciated cost. Depreciation 
on buildings is recognised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life. Land is recognised at cost and not depreciated.

Capitalised software costs
External direct costs of materials and services incurred to develop or obtain software for internal use, payroll and payroll-related 
costs for employees directly associated with software development and interest cost incurred while developing software for 
internal use are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis through earnings over the estimated useful life.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  165

