Corporate GovernanCe

Information Policy
Investors and other stakeholders 
can subscribe to receive  
ad hoc disclosures and further 
corporate news automatically  
at swissre.com/media. 

Swiss re’s core business — managing 
global risk — makes us by necessity an 
information company. our information 
policy therefore goes well beyond  
legal requirements in establishing 
transparency in our communications  
and equal access to the facts for all 
investors and the public.

the official medium for publications  
of the company is the Swiss official  
Gazette of Commerce (Schweizerisches 
Handelsamtsblatt). In addition, we use 
our website to provide comprehensive, 
timely news and information on our 
activities as well as background 
discussion and analysis of issues relating 
to Swiss re’s business and the broader 
insurance and reinsurance industries. 
Investors and other stakeholders can 
subscribe to receive ad hoc disclosures 
and further corporate news automatically 
at swissre.com/media. our contact 
details are provided on page 280. 

our Investor relations team holds  
regular meetings with institutional 
investors and analysts. at the 2015 
Investors’ Day in Zurich in December, 
Swiss re unveiled its strategic framework 
equipping the company to position itself 
strongly vis-à-vis the current and future 
opportunities and challenges facing the 
insurance industry. at the heart of the 
framework is the effective and systematic 
allocation of capital to access new and 
existing risk pools and revenue streams. 
Swiss re also detailed how the framework 
will lay the foundation to meet its financial 
targets over the cycle. the presentations 
and conference call recordings from 
this event are also available on our 
website: http://www.swissre.com/
investors/presentations

Swiss re observes strict close periods 
around the publications of the  
Group’s quarterly and annual results.  
the close periods apply throughout  
the preparation of the results and provide 
for an appropriate cooling-off period after 
the release of the results. During such 
close periods, employees of Swiss re 
and members of the Board of  
Directors are prohibited from trading  
in Swiss re securities.

112  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

