FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements

Life and health reinsurance premiums for group coverages are generally earned over the term of the coverage. For group contracts 
that allow experience adjustments to premiums, such premiums are recognised as the related experience emerges.

Reinstatement premiums are due where coverage limits for the remaining life of the contract are reinstated under pre-defined 
contract terms. The recognition of reinstatement premiums as written depends on individual contract features. Reinstatement 
premiums are either recognised as written at the time a loss event occurs or in line with the recognition pattern of premiums 
written of the underlying contract. The accrual of reinstatement premiums is based on actuarial estimates of ultimate losses. 
Reinstatement premiums are generally earned in proportion to the amount of reinsurance provided.

Insurance and reinsurance ceded
The Group uses retrocession arrangements to increase its aggregate underwriting capacity, to diversify its risk and to reduce 
the risk of catastrophic loss on reinsurance assumed. The ceding of risks to retrocessionaires does not relieve the Group of its 
obligations to its ceding companies. The Group regularly evaluates the financial condition of its retrocessionaires and monitors 
the concentration of credit risk to minimise its exposure to financial loss from retrocessionaires’ insolvency. Premiums and losses 
ceded under retrocession contracts are reported as reductions of premiums earned and claims and claim adjustment expenses. 
Amounts recoverable for ceded short- and long-duration contracts, including universal life-type and investment contracts, are 
reported as assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.

The Group provides reserves for uncollectible amounts on reinsurance balances ceded, based on management’s assessment  
of the collectability of the outstanding balances. 

Receivables
Premium and claims receivables which have been invoiced are accounted for at face value. Together with assets arising from the 
application of the deposit method of accounting that meet the definition of financing receivables they are regularly assessed for 
impairment. Evidence of impairment is the age of the receivable and/or any financial difficulties of the counterparty. Allowances 
are set up on the net balance, meaning all balances related to the same counterparty are considered. The amount of the allowance 
is set up in relation to the time a receivable has been due and financial difficulties of the debtor, and can be as high as the 
outstanding net balance.

Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 
The Group accounts for its pension and other post-retirement benefit costs using the accrual method of accounting.  
Amounts charged to expense are based on periodic actuarial determinations.

Share-based payment transactions
As of 31 December 2015, the Group has a Leadership Performance Plan, stock option plans, restricted shares, an Employee 
Participation Plan, and a Global Share Participation Plan. These plans are described in more detail in Note 15. The Group accounts 
for share-based payment transactions with employees using the fair value method. Under the fair value method, the fair value of 
the awards is recognised in earnings over the vesting period.

For share-based compensation plans which are settled in cash, compensation costs are recognised as liabilities, whereas for 
equity-settled plans, compensation costs are recognised as an accrual to additional paid-in capital within shareholders’ equity. 

Treasury shares
Treasury shares are reported at cost in shareholders’ equity. Treasury shares also include stand-alone derivative instruments 
indexed to the Group’s shares that meet the requirements for classification in shareholders’ equity.

Earnings per common share
Basic earnings per common share are determined by dividing net income available to shareholders by the weighted average 
number of common shares entitled to dividends during the year. Diluted earnings per common share reflect the effect on 
earnings and average common shares outstanding associated with dilutive securities.

Subsequent events
Subsequent events for the current reporting period have been evaluated up to 15 March 2016. This is the date on which the 
financial statements are available to be issued.

Recent accounting guidance
In January 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-01, 
“Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force)”,  

168  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

