Provisions
Provisions contain provision for currency fluctuation and provision for taxation.

the provision for currency fluctuation comprises the net effect of foreign exchange gains and losses arising from the yearly 
revaluation of the opening balance sheet and the translation adjustment of the income statement from average to closing exchange 
rates at year-end. these net impacts are recognised in the income statement over a period of up to three years. Where the provision 
for currency fluctuation is insufficient to absorb net foreign exchange losses for the financial year, the provision for currency 
fluctuation is reduced to zero and the excess foreign exchange loss is recognised in the income statement.

the provision for taxation represents an estimate of taxes payable in respect of the reporting year.

Other legal capital reserves
Other legal capital reserves reflect gains and losses from sale of own shares (directly held by the company).

Reserve for own shares (indirectly held by subsidiaries)
Reserve for own shares is accounted for at the book value of those shares in the statutory financial statements of the respective 
subsidiary.

Own shares (directly held by the Company)
Own shares are carried at cost and presented as a deduction in shareholders’ equity.

Foreign exchange transaction gains and losses
foreign exchange gains and losses arising from foreign exchange transactions are recognised in the income statement and 
reported in other expenses or other revenues, respectively.

Dividends from subsidiaries and affiliated companies
Dividends from subsidiaries and affiliated companies are recognised as investment income in the year in which they are declared.

Trademark licence fees
trademark licence fees are charged by the company to its direct and indirect subsidiaries and their branches that benefit from the 
use of the swiss Re brand.

Capital and indirect taxes
capital and indirect taxes related to the financial year are included in other expenses. Value-added taxes are included in the 
respective expense lines in the income statement.

Income tax expense
as a holding company incorporated in switzerland, swiss Re ltd is exempt from income taxation at cantonal/communal level.  
On the federal level, dividends from subsidiaries and affiliated companies are indirectly exempt from income taxation (participation 
relief). However, income tax is payable on trademark licence fees charged to certain subsidiaries and affiliated companies.

Subsequent events
subsequent events for the current reporting period have been evaluated up to 15 march 2016. this is the date on which the 
financial statements are available to be issued. 

Swiss Re 2015 financial Report  255

