GeneRal infORmatiOn

Glossary

Acquisition costs

Admin Re®

that portion of an insurance premium which represents the cost of obtaining the 
insurance business: it includes the intermediaries’ commission, the company’s sales 
expense and other related expenses.

Business Unit through which Swiss Re acquires closed blocks of in-force life and health 
insurance business, either through reinsurance or corporate acquisition, and typically 
assumes responsibility for administering the underlying policies.

Asset-backed securities

Securities backed by notes or receivables against financial assets such as auto loans, 
credit cards, royalties, student loans and insurance profits.

Asset-liability management (ALM)

Aviation insurance

Book value per share

Business interruption

Capacity

Catastrophe bonds

Cession

Claim

Claims handling

management of an insurance business in a way that coordinates investment-related 
decisions on assets and liabilities. Specifically, the ongoing process of formulating, 
implementing, monitoring and revising investment strategies related to assets and 
liabilities in an attempt to achieve financial objectives, while managing exposure to 
financial market risks, such as interest rates, credit spreads and currency movements. 

insurance of accident and liability risks, as well as hull damage, connected with the 
operation of aircraft.

the ratio of ordinary shareholders’ equity to the number of common shares entitled  
to dividend.

insurance covering the loss of earnings resulting from, and occurring after, destruction 
of property; also known as “loss of profits” or “business income protection insurance”.

maximum amount of risk that can be accepted in insurance. Capacity also refers to  
the amount of insurance coverage allocated to a particular policyholder or in the 
marketplace in general.

type of insurance – mainly comprising accident and liability business – which is 
separate from property, engineering and life insurance.

Securities used by insurance and reinsurance companies to transfer peak insurance 
risks, including natural catastrophes, to the capital markets. Catastrophe bonds help  
to spread peak exposures (see insurance-linked securities).

insurance that is reinsured: the passing of the insurer’s risks to the reinsurer against 
payment of a premium. the insurer is referred to as the ceding company or cedent.

Demand by an insured for indemnity under an insurance contract.

activities in connection with the investigation, settlement and payment of claims  
from the time of their occurrence until settlement.

Claims incurred and claim 
adjustment expenses

all claims payments plus the adjustment in the outstanding claims provision of  
a business year and claim adjustment expenses.

Claims ratio

Sum of claims paid and change in the provisions for unpaid claims and claim 
adjustment expenses in relation to premiums earned.

266  Swiss Re 2015 financial Report

