Premiums written

Premiums for all policies sold during a specific accounting period.

Principal Investments and Acquisitions

Principal investments and acquisitions is a unit of Swiss Re that manages all strategic 
acquisition activities of the Group as well as a portfolio of minority holdings in primarily 
insurance and insurance-related businesses with the goal of generating long-term 
value.

Product liability insurance

insurance covering the liability of the manufacturer or supplier of goods for damage 
caused by their products.

Professional indemnity insurance

Property insurance

Proportional reinsurance

liability insurance cover which protects professional specialists such as physicians, 
architects, engineers, lawyers, accountants and others against third-party claims 
arising from activities in their professional field; policies and conditions vary according 
to profession.

Collective term for fire and business interruption insurance as well as burglary, fidelity 
guarantee and allied lines.

form of reinsurance arrangement in which the premiums earned and the claims 
incurred of the cedent are shared proportionally by the cedent and the reinsurer.

Present value of future profits (PVFP)

intangible asset primarily arising from the purchase of life and health insurance 
companies or portfolios.

Quota share reinsurance

Reinsurance

Reserves

Retention

Retrocession

form of proportional reinsurance in which a defined percentage of the premiums 
earned and the claims incurred by the cedent in a specific line is reinsured for a given 
period. Quota share reinsurance arrangements represent a sharing of business in a 
fixed ratio or proportion.

insurance which lowers the risk carried by primary insurance companies. Reinsurance 
includes various forms such as facultative, financial, non-proportional, proportional, 
quota share, surplus and treaty reinsurance.

amount required to be carried as a liability in the financial statements of an insurer or 
reinsurer to provide for future commitments under outstanding policies and contracts.

amount of risk which the policyholder or insurer does not insure or reinsure but keeps 
for its own account.

amount of the risk accepted by the reinsurer which is then passed on to other 
reinsurance companies.

Return on equity

net income as a percentage of time-weighted shareholders’ equity. 

Return on investments

Risk

Risk management

investment related operating income as a percentage of invested assets. invested 
assets include investments, securities in transit, certain financial liabilities and exclude 
policy loans, minority interests, cash and cash equivalents, as well as assets related to 
securities lending, repurchase agreements and collateral balances.

Condition in which there is a possibility of injury or loss; also used by insurance 
practitioners to indicate the property insured or the peril insured against.

management tool for the comprehensive identification and assessment of risks based 
on knowledge and experience in the fields of natural sciences, technology, economics 
and statistics.

Swiss Re 2015 financial Report  269

