Where do we go from here?
Our vision “We make the world more 
resilient” is supported by our mission —  
to create smarter solutions for our clients 
through fresh perspectives, knowledge 
and capital. The combination of these 
strengths makes Swiss Re a partner of 
choice for our clients. Together, we 
believe we can close the gap between 
the rising costs of natural disasters and 
other hazards and the share of those 
costs that is covered by re/insurance 
solutions. 

In 2015, the world experienced some 
tragic events and great uncertainty —  
an evolving terrorism threat, wars and 
epidemics, a fragile global economy. 
Against this backdrop, the re/insurance 
industry needs to step up its game and 
extend the boundaries of insurability, 
building a safety net around those who 
need it most.

2016 has been off to a volatile start amid 
concerns about the strength of the global 
economy. Many of the challenges we’ve 
experienced over the past years, such as 
continued low interest rates and ample 
capital in our core business areas, will 

continue to exist. As communicated  
in December 2015, we believe our  
four pillar strategic framework equips us  
with an agile business model that makes 
us able to respond more quickly and 
effectively to change and to drive  
change ourselves. This is why we  
remain confident that we will continue to 
capture attractive business opportunities 
and we thank you, our shareholders,  
for placing your confidence in us. 

No strategic framework can be put  
to good use without the help and 
dedication of our people. We need  
our employees’ enthusiasm and 
commitment to bring our vision closer to 
reality. We’d like to thank them for their 
hard work: without them, we couldn’t 
celebrate another successful year.

As you can see I am passionate about 
Swiss Re’s future. I am convinced that 
Christian Mumenthaler and his team will 
further strengthen the role of Swiss Re  
in our industry and our society more 
generally. It is an honour and a privilege 
to work for this great company. I will 
always be proud to have been part  
of Swiss Re. 

Zurich, 16 March 2016

Michel M. Liès
Group Chief Executive Officer

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  11

