FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements

separable from the loan before foreclosure. Upon foreclosure, the separate other receivable should be measured based on the 
amount of the loan balance expected to be recovered from the guarantor. The Group adopted ASU 2014-14 on 1 January 2015. 
The adoption did not have an effect on the Group’s financial statements.

In May 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-09, “Disclosures about Short-Duration Contracts”, an update to topic 944, “Financial 
Services — Insurance”. ASU 2015-09 requires an insurance entity to provide additional information about insurance liabilities, 
including information on the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of future cash flows related to insurance liabilities and the 
effect of those cash flows on the statement of comprehensive income. Requirements include disaggregated incurred and paid 
claims development information by accident year, on a net basis after risk mitigation, for at least the most recent 10 years with  
the periods preceding the current period considered required supplementary information. In addition, for each accident  
year presented in the claims development tables, an insurer has to provide disaggregated information about claim frequency  
(unless impracticable) and the amounts of incurred-but-not-reported (IBNR) liabilities plus the expected development on 
reported claims. Required disclosures also include a description of the methods for determining both IBNR and expected 
development on reported claims as well as information about any significant changes in methods and assumptions used in the 
computation of the liability for unpaid claims and claim adjustment expenses, including reasons for the changes and the impact 
of the changes on the most recent reporting period in the financial statements. All aforementioned disclosures have to be 
provided on an annual basis. In addition, insurance entities must disclose the roll-forward of the liability for unpaid claims and 
claim adjustment expenses in both interim and annual periods. The Group will adopt the annual disclosure requirements for  
the annual reporting period ending on 31 December 2016, and the interim disclosure requirements for the quarter ending  
on 31 March 2017. The Group has set up a project to implement the new requirements.

In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, “Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities“, 
an update to subtopic 825-10, “Financial Instruments – Overall“. The ASU requires an entity to carry investments in equity 
securities, including other ownership interests and limited liability companies at fair value through net income, with the exception 
of equity method investments, investments that result in consolidation or investments for which the entity has elected the 
practicability exception to fair value measurement. The practicability exception can only be applied by certain entities and only  
to equity investments without a readily determinable fair value. Investments under the practicability exception will be subject to 
an indicator-based impairment test. For financial liabilities to which the fair value option has been applied, the ASU also requires 
an entity to separately present the change in fair value attributable to instrument-specific credit risk in other comprehensive 
income rather than in net income. Specific exceptions apply to this requirement. In addition, the ASU requires an entity to assess 
whether a valuation allowance is needed on a deferred tax asset (DTA) related to fixed income securities AFS in combination 
with the entity‘s other DTA‘s rather than separately from other DTAs. The ASU also introduces changes to disclosure 
requirements for financial instruments not measured at fair value and introduces new requirements for equity instruments where 
the practicability exception to fair value measurement is applied. The new requirements are effective for annual and interim 
periods beginning after 15 December 2017 with early adoption permitted for requirements relating to the presentation of the 
impact of instrument-specific credit risk on qualifying financial liabilities in other comprehensive income. The Group is currently 
assessing the impact of the new requirements.

170  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

