Understanding the risk
To assess our property & Casualty 
business accurately and to structure 
sound risk transfer solutions, we need to 
clearly understand the economic impact 
of natural catastrophes and the effect  
of climate change. This is why we invest  
in proprietary, state-of-the-art natural 
catastrophe models and regularly 
collaborate with universities and  
scientific institutions.

While the effect of climate change  
will increase gradually over the coming 
decades, most of our business is renewed 
annually and our risk models are refined 
every few years. risks are normally 
covered for 12 months (up to five years 
for cat bonds). Thus, reinsurance 
premiums do not reflect expected loss 
trends over the next decades. rather,  
for underwriting and risk management 
purposes, our models provide an 
estimate of the current risk. but as natural 
catastrophe losses continue to rise as a 
result of the different factors described 
above, our forward-looking models will 
gradually reflect this trend, since they are 
updated and refined at regular intervals.

Through the Economics of Climate 
Adaptation (ECA) methodology we also 
analyse the effects of climate change on 
a longer timescale, which enables us to 
provide our clients with strategic advice 
and integral risk assessments of natural 
disasters and climate adaptation.  
ECA studies quantify today’s climate  
risks, the potential increase of populations  
and assets at risk due to economic 
development, plus the additional risk 
posed by climate change, with a time 
horizon of up to 30 years. in a second 
step, our studies identify cost-effective 
measures to adapt to these risks.

in 2015, we completed two new  
ECA studies, both at the request of  
the German Development bank (KfW).  
For san salvador, El salvador, we found 
that strengthening the buffer capacity  

of ecosystems through reforestation  
can reduce flood risk in poorer  
neighbourhoods by up to UsD 50 million 
over three decades. The study for the city 
of barisal, bangladesh revealed that 
reinforcing river embankments effectively 
protects citizens and reduces local flood 
risks by more than 50%, also under future 
climate scenarios. both ECA studies thus 
give decision-makers important 
information needed to integrate climate 
adaptation with economic development, 
paving the way for sustainable growth.

Developing products and services
With some of our re/insurance products 
we aim to support two objectives: 
mitigation of climate change and 
adaptation to it.

Mitigation: by “mitigation” we mean 
efforts to reduce Co2 emissions. 
renewable energy projects are key to 
this. To date our product development 
has focused on offshore wind, which is 
considered one of the most promising 
renewable energy sources. However, 
these infrastructures present highly 
complex risks because the technology  
is developing rapidly and there is little 
loss history to rely upon for underwriting 
purposes. our Corporate solutions 
business Unit takes a special interest in 
offshore wind, as we have both the large 
capacity and the technical expertise  
to assess and manage the complex  
risks associated with it (see example  
on the left).

Adaptation to climate change requires 
effective risk transfer instruments that 
help our clients to cope with some of  
its effects. As we continuously adjust  
our natural catastrophe and weather 
solutions to reflect changes in the 
underlying risk, both are suitable for this 
purpose. on pages 121–122 we describe 
some recent examples of such products, 
along with two corresponding 
commitments we have made.

CorporATE rEspoNsibiliTy

First offshore wind farm in the US
in 2015, we insured a number of 
offshore wind projects in different 
countries, including the block island 
Wind Farm in the Us (dwwind.com/
project/block-island-wind-farm).
Developed by Deepwater Wind, this is 
the country’s first-ever offshore wind 
facility. The project is situated in the 
Atlantic ocean, approximately three 
miles from block island, rhode island, 
where there are strong and steady 
winds. Thanks to its expertise and 
proximity to the client, swiss re 
Corporate solutions was appointed as 
the project’s lead insurer and provides 
both a Construction All risk (CAr) and 
a Delay in start-Up (DsU) cover.

Construction of the wind farm is 
underway and is scheduled to be 
completed by the end of 2016. our 
client, GE Wind (formerly Alstom), is 
building five powerful, highly efficient 
turbines that will generate a total 
capacity of 30 megawatts. The wind 
farm will give the inhabitants of block 
island access to reliable as well as 
renewable electricity for the first time. 
so far, they have had to use diesel 
generators, which are inefficient  
and cause substantial air pollution.  
The power not used on block island  
will be transmitted to the mainland 
through a 21-mile long cable under  
the ocean floor.

118  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

