FINANCIAl STATEmENTS
Notes to the Group financial statements

Report of the statutory auditor

Report of the statutory auditor 
to the General meeting of 
Swiss Re ltd 
Zurich

Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements
As statutory auditor, we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Swiss Re ltd and its subsidiaries  
(the “Company”), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as of 31 December 2015, and the related consolidated income 
statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of shareholders’ equity, statement of cash flow and notes  
(pages 156 to 244) for the year ended 31 December 2015. 

Board of Directors’ responsibility 
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and the requirements of Swiss law.  
This responsibility includes designing, implementing, and maintaining an internal control system relevant to the preparation and 
fair presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The 
Board of Directors is further responsible for selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and making accounting 
estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.

Auditor’s responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our 
audit in accordance with Swiss law, Swiss Auditing Standards and auditing standards generally accepted in the United States 
of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated  
financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of 
material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, 
the auditor considers the internal control system relevant to the Company’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated 
financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of 
expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control system. An audit also includes evaluating the 
appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made, as well as 
evaluating the over-all presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

246  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

