Report of the statutory auditor

Report of the statutory auditor 
to the General Meeting of 
Swiss Re ltd 
Zurich

Report of the statutory auditor on the Financial Statements
As statutory auditor, we have audited the financial statements of Swiss Re ltd (the “Company”), which comprise the income 
statement, balance sheet and notes (pages 251 to 261), for the year ended 31 December 2015.

Board of Directors’ Responsibility 
The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the requirements of 
Swiss law and the Company’s Articles of Association. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining an 
internal control system relevant to the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due 
to fraud or error. The Board of Directors is further responsible for selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and 
making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. 

Auditor’s Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance 
with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. 

An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement  
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers the internal 
control system relevant to the Company’s preparation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal 
control system. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of 
accounting estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.

Opinion 
In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 comply with Swiss law and the Company’s Articles 
of Association.

Report on other legal requirements
We confirm that we meet the legal requirements on licensing according to the Auditor Oversight Act (AOA) and independence  
(article 728 CO and article 11 AOA) and that there are no circumstances incompatible with our independence.

In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control 
system exists which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of the  
Board of Directors.

We further confirm that the proposal for allocation of disposable profit complies with Swiss law and the Company’s Articles  
of Association. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved.

PricewaterhouseCoopers ltd

Alex Finn 
Audit expert 
Auditor in charge 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bret Griffin 

 

 

 

 

 

Zurich, 15 March 2016

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  263

