Valuation techniques
US government securities typically have quoted market prices in active markets and are categorised as level 1 instruments  
in the fair value hierarchy. non-US government holdings are generally classified as level 2 instruments and are valued on the  
basis of the quotes provided by pricing services, which are subject to the Group’s pricing validation reviews and pricing vendor 
challenge process. Valuations provided by pricing vendors are generally based on the actual trade information as substantially  
all of the Group’s non-US government holdings are traded in a transparent and liquid market.

Corporate debt securities mainly include US and European investment-grade positions, which are priced on the basis of  
quotes provided by third-party pricing vendors and first utilise valuation inputs from actively traded securities, such as bid  
prices, bid spreads to Treasury securities, Treasury curves, and same or comparable issuer curves and spreads. Issuer spreads 
are determined from actual quotes and traded prices and incorporate considerations of credit/default, sector composition, and 
liquidity and call features. Where market data is not available, valuations are developed based on the modelling techniques that 
utilise observable inputs and option-adjusted spreads and incorporate considerations of the security’s seniority, maturity and the 
issuer’s corporate structure.

Values of mortgage- and asset-backed securities are obtained both from third-party pricing vendors and through quoted prices, 
some of which may be based on the prices of comparable securities with similar structural and collateral features. Values of 
certain asset-backed securities (aBS) for which there are no significant observable inputs are developed using benchmarks  
to similar transactions or indices. For both residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) and commercial mortgage-backed 
securities (CMBS), cash flows are derived based on the transaction-specific information, which incorporates priority in the 
capital structure, and are generally adjusted to reflect benchmark yields, market prepayment data, collateral performance 
(default rates and loss severity) for specific vintage and geography, credit enhancements, and ratings. For certain RMBS and 
CMBS with low levels of market liquidity, judgements may be required to determine comparable securities based on the loan  
type and deal-specific performance. CMBS terms may also incorporate lock-out periods that restrict borrowers from prepaying  
the loans or provide disincentives to prepay and therefore reduce prepayment risk of these securities, compared to RMBS.  
The factors specifically considered in valuation of CMBS include borrower-specific statistics in a specific region, such as debt 
service coverage and loan-to-value ratios, as well as the type of commercial property. Mortgage- and asset-backed securities 
also includes debt securitised by credit card, student loan and auto loan receivables. Pricing inputs for these securities also focus 
on capturing, where relevant, collateral quality and performance, payment patterns, and delinquencies. 

The Group uses third-party pricing vendor data to value agency securitised products, which mainly include collateralised 
mortgage obligations (CMO) and mortgage-backed government agency securities. The valuations generally utilise observable 
inputs consistent with those noted above for RMBS and CMBS.

Equity securities held by the Group for proprietary investment purposes are mainly classified in level 1. Securities classified  
in level 1 are traded on public stock exchanges for which quoted prices are readily available. 

The category “Other invested assets” includes the Group’s private equity and hedge fund investments which are made directly 
or via ownership of funds. Substantially all of these investments are classified as level 3 due to the lack of observable prices  
and significant judgement required in valuation. Valuation of direct private equity investments requires significant management 
judgement due to the absence of quoted market prices and the lack of liquidity. Initial valuation is based on the acquisition cost, 
and is further refined based on the available market information for the public companies that are considered comparable to the 
Group’s holdings in the private companies being valued, and the private company-specific performance indicators; both historic 
and projected. Subsequent valuations also reflect business or asset appraisals, as well as market transaction data for private and 
public benchmark companies and the actual companies being valued, such as financing rounds and mergers and acquisitions 
activity. The Group’s holdings in the private equity and hedge funds are generally valued utilising net asset values (naV), subject 
to adjustments, as deemed necessary, for restrictions on redemption (lock-up periods and amount limitations on redemptions).

The Group holds both exchange-traded and (OTC) interest rate, foreign exchange, credit and equity derivative contracts for 
hedging and trading purposes. The fair values of exchange-traded derivatives measured using observable exchange prices 
are classified in level 1. Long-dated contracts may require adjustments to the exchange-traded prices which would trigger 
reclassification to level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. OTC derivatives are generally valued by the Group based on the internal 
models, which are consistent with industry standards and practices, and use both observable (dealer, broker or market 
consensus prices, spot and forward rates, interest rate and credit curves and volatility indices) and unobservable inputs 
(adjustments for liquidity, inputs derived from the observable data based on the Group’s judgements and assumptions).

Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report  201

