Risk ANd CApiTAl mANAgEmENT
Risk assessment

Financial market and Credit Risk

Financial market and credit risk 
management involves identifying, 
assessing and controlling risks 
inherent in the financial markets as 
well as counterparty risks, while 
monitoring compliance with our risk 
management standards. Both risk 
categories are managed centrally by 
our Financial Risk Management team. 

Our central Financial Risk management 
team oversees activities generating 
financial market and/or credit risk, 
proposes limits, provides quantitative risk 
assessment across financial risk factors, 
and monitors portfolio risk. it also 
develops considerations for risk 
mitigation or risk reduction, reviews risk 
and valuation models, assesses asset 
valuations, and approves transactions 
and new products. These responsibilities 

are exercised through defined 
governance procedures, including  
regular reviews by our senior Risk 
Council. Financial Risk management  
is responsible for both internally and 
externally managed assets, principal 
investments and all liability-based 
business generating financial market 
and/or credit risk, including credit  
and surety. 

  Financial market risk  

 

 

 

 

 

Change from 2014 99% tail VaR

Description

Developments in 2015

Financial market risk is the risk that  
assets or liabilities may be impacted by 
movements in financial market prices  
or rates − such as equity prices, interest 
rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange 
rates or real estate prices. Financial 
market risk originates from two main 
sources: our own investment activities 
and the sensitivity of the economic  
value of liabilities to financial market 
fluctuations. swiss Re actively manages 
the potential mismatch in financial market 
risk between its liabilities and the assets 
that it holds.

The overall financial market risk increased 
by 4% to Usd 12.6 billion (see table  
on page 65). The increase reflects the 
inclusion of guardian Financial services 
(guardian) as well as changes to 
swiss Re’s asset allocation increasing  
in particular our credit spread risk.  
This increase is partly offset by a 
decrease in equity and interest rate risk. 

The table on page 69 shows swiss Re’s 
sensitivity to various market scenarios. 
The potential loss from credit spread 
widening increased in 2015, reflecting 

the inclusion of the guardian portfolio 
(see page 51). Without the guardian 
transaction, the sensitivity of the portfolio 
to changes in credit spread would have 
decreased. The decrease in equity stress 
is driven by the impact of negative market 
movements on our equity portfolio  
as well as by the sale of hedge fund 
positions. The increase in real estate risk 
reflects additional investments mainly  
in Us real estates. The decrease in the 
interest rate scenario resulted from the 
reduction of swiss Re’s net short duration 
position to an almost balanced portfolio.

Management

Financial market risk is subject to limits  
at various levels of the organisation  
(eg, group, Business Units, lines of 
business and legal entities). individual 
limits are expressed in terms of stress, 
VaR and risk factor sensitivities. Asset 
management determines a more detailed 
set of risk limits for its portfolio mandates.

Financial Risk management regularly 
reviews and updates the risk framework 
and is also responsible for monitoring 
financial market risk in accordance with

 

our risk management standards. The unit 
provides daily and weekly group-level 
reports on risks and on specific limits  
for internally and externally managed 
investment mandates as well as for  
the Business Units. These reports track 
exposures, document limit usage  
(which is independently monitored by 
Financial Risk management) and provide 
information on key risks that could affect 
the portfolio. specific limits are assigned 
to the line of business heads, who seek  
to optimise their portfolios within those

limits. The reports are normally presented 
and discussed with the relevant business 
line responsibles at weekly meetings.

This process is complemented by regular 
risk discussions between Financial Risk 
management, Asset management, 
Business Units and the group’s external 
investment managers.

68  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

