GeneRal infORmatiOn
Glossary

Running yield

Securitisation

Solvency II

Stop-loss reinsurance

Surety insurance

Surplus reinsurance

Swiss Solvency Test (SST)

net investment income on long-term fixed income positions, including coupon income 
and amortisation, as a percentage of the average market value of the long-term fixed 
income portfolio. 

financial transaction in which future cash flows from financial assets (or insurable 
risks) are pooled, converted into tradable securities and transferred to capital market 
investors. the financial assets are commonly sold to a special-purpose entity,  
which purchases them with cash raised through the issuance of beneficial interests 
(usually debt instruments) to third-party investors.

new regulatory framework for eU re/insurance solvency rules that introduces 
comprehensive, economic and risk-based regulation and includes prudential 
requirements on solvency capital, risk modelling, supervisory control and disclosure.

form of reinsurance that protects the ceding insurer against an aggregate amount 
of claims over a period, in excess of either a stated amount or a specified percentage  
of estimated benefit costs. an example of this is employer stop-loss (eSl) coverage, 
which is used by US companies to cap losses on self-funded group health benefit 
programmes. the stop-loss can apply to specific conditions or aggregate losses.

Sureties and guarantees issued to third parties for the fulfilment of  
contractual liabilities.

form of proportional reinsurance in which risks are reinsured above  
a specified amount.

an economic and risk-based insurance regulation, similar to the objectives of 
Solvency ii to which all insurance and reinsurance companies writing business  
in Switzerland are subject. Since 1 January 2011, the SSt-based target capital 
requirement is in force and companies must achieve economic solvency.

Tail VaR

See “Value at risk”.

Top-down investment  
strategy approach

Total return on investments

Treaty reinsurance

Underwriting result

Unearned premium

an investment strategy process which analyses trends in the global economy and the 
associated impact on financial markets to assess the overall financial market outlook  
as well as their implications for various asset classes and risk exposures.

investment related operating income plus the change in unrealised gains/losses on 
available-for-sale securities as well as the fair value of real estate and certain loans as  
a percentage of invested assets. invested assets include investments, securities in 
transit, certain financial liabilities and exclude policy loans, minority interests, cash  
and cash equivalents, as well as assets related to securities lending, repurchase 
agreements and collateral balances.

Participation of the reinsurer in certain sections of the insurer’s business as agreed  
by treaty, as opposed to single risks.

Premiums earned less the sum of claims paid, change in the provision for unpaid 
claims and claim adjustment expenses and expenses (acquisition costs and other 
operating costs and expenses).

Part of written premium (paid or owed) which relates to future coverage and for which 
services have not yet been provided; this is carried in an unearned premium reserve 
and may be refundable if the contract is cancelled before expiry.

270  Swiss Re 2015 financial Report

