Changes in the years 2015/2016 
no changes have occurred in the 
composition of the Group eC  
during 2015.

thierry Léger was appointed  
Ceo Life Capital and a member of  
the Group eC as of 1 January 2016. 

Christian Mumenthaler, currently 
Ceo reinsurance, will become 
Group Ceo as of 1 July 2016,  
succeeding Michel M. Liès who  
will retire. 

Other mandates, activities and 
vested interests
In line with Swiss re Ltd’s articles  
of association the members of the 
Group eC may not hold more than five 
additional mandates of which no more 
than one additional mandate can be  
with listed companies. Mandates (i)  
in companies which are controlled  
by Swiss re Ltd or which control 
Swiss re Ltd, (ii) mandates held at the 
request of Swiss re Ltd or companies 
controlled by Swiss re Ltd  
as well as (iii) mandates in associations, 
charitable organisations, foundations, 
trusts, employee welfare foundations, 
investment companies, equity 
partnerships or limited liability 

partnerships are not subject to the above 
limitations. no member of the Group eC 
may hold more than five mandates as set 
out in (ii) above and not more than 
15 mandates as set out in (iii) above. 
Mandates shall mean mandates in the 
supreme governing body of a legal entity 
which is required to be registered in the 
commercial register or a comparable 
foreign register. Mandates in different 
legal entities that are under joint control 
are deemed one mandate. 

all Group eC members comply with  
the requirements on external mandates 
set out in the articles of association.

any activities of members of the  
Group eC in governing and supervisory  
bodies of important Swiss and foreign 
organisations, institutions and 
foundations as well as permanent 
management and consultancy functions 
for important Swiss and foreign interest 
groups and official functions and political 
posts, which are material, are stated  
in each of the Group eC members’ 
biographies on pages 103–106.

Management contracts
Swiss re has not entered into any 
management contract with any  
third party.

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  107

