Risk ANd CApiTAl mANAgEmENT
Risk assessment

insurance Risk

Insurance (or underwriting) risk is the 
risk of incurring a financial loss from 
coverage provided for both property 
and casualty and life and health risks. 
Insurance risk management includes 
overseeing risk-taking activities, as 
well as ensuring that an appropriate 
risk governance framework is defined 
and applied. 

Our Risk management function is 
embedded in swiss Re’s business 
processes and follows the business  
cycle. Before any business is written, 
Risk management is involved in the 
group-wide annual business planning;  
it also reviews underwriting standards, 
pricing models, and large individual 
transactions. Risk exposure is monitored 
against agreed risk limits. 

swiss Re’s Risk management function 
monitors reserving levels; it provides 
information to the risk-taking functions  
on trends to ensure appropriate pricing. 
Underwriting systems across the group 
provide timely information on risks 
assumed and capacity committed. 
Regular internal risk and issue reporting 
ensures transparency at all stages.

  Property and casualty risk  

 

 

 

 

Change from 2014 99% tail VaR

Description

Developments in 2015

property and casualty (p&C) insurance 
risk arises from the coverage that 
swiss Re provides for property, liability, 
motor, and accident risks through its 
Reinsurance and Corporate solutions 
Business Units, as well as for specialty 
risks such as engineering, aviation,  
and marine. We classify and model  
our property and casualty risks in three 
categories at group and Business Unit 
level: natural catastrophes 
(eg, earthquakes and windstorms), 
man-made risks (eg, liability and fire),  
and geopolitical risks (eg, terrorism).  
We also monitor and manage underlying 
risks inherent in the business we 
underwrite, such as inflation or 
uncertainty in pricing and reserving.

swiss Re’s overall property and casualty 
risk increased slightly by 4%, mainly 
driven by higher natural catastrophe risk 
resulting from our strategic decision to 
reduce external hedging as well as from 
new business. The increase was partly 
offset by foreign exchange developments.

The higher natural catastrophe risk can 
also be seen in the stress results on 
page 67. The table shows swiss Re’s 
exposure to a set of major natural 
catastrophe scenarios, net of retrocession 
and securitisation. These risk exposures 
take into account the fact that such a 
scenario will trigger claims in other lines 
of business in addition to the most 
affected property line. 

While our exposure to Californian and 
Japanese earthquake remained broadly 
stable (−4% and +2%, respectively), our 
Atlantic hurricane exposure showed a 
significant increase (+31%). This is driven 
by business growth and a reduction in 
external hedges as mentioned above.  
Our exposure to European windstorm risk 
decreased (−17%) in 2015, mainly due  
to model enhancement and the Us dollar 
appreciation against the euro, partly 
offset by growth in risk due to expiry  
of several external hedges.

 

Management

swiss Re writes property and casualty 
business using the four-eye principle: 
every transaction must be reviewed  
by at least two authorised individuals.  
An exception to this procedure are  
single risk acceptances, which can be 
authorised by one underwriter whereby 
the four-eye principle is applied  
by spot checks after acceptance.  
Each underwriter is assigned an 
individual underwriting authority  
based on technical skills and experience;  
any business exceeding this authority 
triggers a defined escalation process. 

large and complex individual 
transactions that could materially affect 
the group’s and Business Units’ risk 
exposure require independent review  
and sign-off by Risk management before 
authorisation. This is part of our three-
signature approval process (involving 
swiss Re’s underwriting, client 
management and risk management 
functions) that establishes the 
accountability of each of the parties  
for significant transactions.

 

We monitor accumulated exposure to 
single risks or to an underlying risk factor 
(such as Californian earthquake) on a 
group-wide basis. We further manage 
our risk by external retrocession, risk 
swaps, or transferring risk to capital 
markets through insurance-linked 
securities (such as the successor  
and mythen cat bond programmes). 

66  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

