Corporate GovernanCe
Board of Directors

90  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

Information about managerial 
positions and significant  
business connections of  
non-executive directors
Walter B. Kielholz, Chairman of the  
Board of Directors since 1 May 2009, 
was Swiss re’s Ceo from 1 January 
1997 to 31 December 2002. In line  
with Swiss re’s revised independence 
criteria, Walter B. Kielholz, being a  
full-time Chairman, is not considered 
independent. no other director has ever 
held a management position within the 
Group. none of the members of the Board 
of Directors has any significant business 
connections with Swiss re Ltd or any of 
the Group companies.

Other mandates, activities  
and functions
In line with Swiss re Ltd’s articles of 
association the members of the Board  
of Directors may not hold more than  
ten additional mandates of which no 
more than four additional mandates can 
be with listed companies. Mandates  
(i) in companies which are controlled  
by Swiss re Ltd or which control 
Swiss re Ltd, (ii) mandates held at the 
request of Swiss re Ltd or by companies 
controlled by Swiss re Ltd as well as  
(iii) mandates in associations, charitable 
organisations, foundations, trusts, 
employee welfare foundations, 
investment companies, equity 
partnerships or limited liability 
partnerships are not subject to the above 
limitations. no member of the Board of 
Directors may hold more than five 
mandates as set out in (ii) above and not 
more than 15 mandates as set out in (iii) 
above. Mandates shall mean mandates in 
the supreme governing body of a legal 
entity which is required to be registered 
in the commercial register or a 
comparable foreign register. Mandates in 
different legal entities that are under joint 
control are deemed one mandate. 

commitment, availability, capacity and 
independence required in fulfilling their 
role as Board member. 

all Board members comply with the 
requirements on external mandates  
set out in the articles of association.

any activities of Board members in 
governing and supervisory bodies  
of important Swiss and foreign 
organisations, institutions and 
foundations, as well as permanent 
management and consultancy functions 
for important Swiss and foreign interest 
groups and official functions and political 
posts, which are material, are stated in 
each of the directors’ biographies, which 
can be found on pages 85–89.

Changes in 2015
at the annual General Meeting on  
21 april 2015, trevor Manuel and  
philip K. ryan were elected as new 
non-executive and independent 
members of the Board of Directors for a 
one-year term of office. at the same time, 
the shareholders re-elected 
Walter B. Kielholz (Chairman), 
Mathis Cabiallavetta, 
raymond K.F. Ch’ien, renato Fassbind, 
Mary Francis, rajna Gibson Brandon,  
C. robert Henrikson, Hans Ulrich Maerki, 
Carlos e. represas, Jean-pierre roth and 
Susan L. Wagner for a one-year term  
of office as members of the Board of 
Directors. raymund Breu did not stand  
for re-election. 

Election, qualifications and term  
of office 
Election procedure
Members of the Board of Directors and 
the Chairman of the Board of Directors  
are elected individually by the General 
Meeting of shareholders for a term  
of office until completion of the next  
General Meeting of shareholders.

In addition, no member of the Board  
of Directors shall serve on the board of 
directors of a listed company in which 
another member of the Board of Directors 
holds an executive function, or where a 
member of the Board of Directors is able 
to determine the compensation of another 
member of the Board of Directors. 

the Board of Directors ensures that in any 
event the number of external mandates 
held by members of the Board of 
Directors does not conflict with their 

the Chairman’s and Governance 
Committee evaluates candidates  
for Board membership and makes 
recommendations to the Board of 
Directors for election or re-election 
proposals. the Board of Directors 
nominates candidates for Board 
membership for election at  
the General Meeting of shareholders, 
ensuring that the Board retains an 
adequate size and well-balanced 
composition and that at least three-
quarters of its members are independent. 

