 

Our underwriters can respond to our 
clients’ often heterogeneous needs with 
innovative and tailored solutions such as 
multi-line deals with structural elements, 
longevity swaps, external run-off 
transactions or insurance-linked 
securities. Our ability to write bespoke 
transactions leads to deals that deliver 
better economics than commoditised 
open-market business. 

Underwriting performance in 2015 
The Group’s overall underwriting 
performance was strong with technical 
profitability across all businesses 
supporting the 31% increase in net 
income from USD 3.5 billion in 2014  
to USD 4.6 billion in 2015. The Group's 
claims ratio for property and casualty 
decreased from 55.4% in 2014 to 53.3% 
in 2015. 

Both periods benefited from a  
lower than expected level of natural 
catastrophe losses. The 2015 natural 
catastrophe loss burden amounted  
to USD 0.2 billion, significantly below  
the expected value of USD 1.7 billion, 
while the 2014 burden amounted  
to USD 0.5 billion, also significantly  
below the expected value of  
USD 1.6 billion. The largest natural 
catastrophe losses in 2015 were caused 
by the floods in chennai, india, and 
storms on australia's east coast.

However, 2015 was impacted by  
an above average amount of large  
man-made losses, while in 2014 large 
man-made losses came in close to 
expected. The 2015 man-made large 
loss burden included the explosion in the 
port of Tianjin, china (USD 250 million), 
a dam burst in Brazil and a fire on an oil 
platform in the Gulf of Mexico.

Both periods benefited from prior-year 
development: USD 950 million in 2015 
compared to USD 673 million in 2014.  
it is important to note that these 
prior-year developments were not 
'one-offs' caused by good luck, but 
valuable earnings contributions from 
effective risk selection and disciplined 
underwriting in prior accident years.

The total life and health benefits 
decreased from USD 10.6 billion  
in 2014 to USD 9.1 billion in 2015.  
That result was strongly influenced  
by the successful completion of 
management actions in reinsurance  
in 2014 in relation to the US pre-2004 
individual life business. in 2015, 
mortality experience was favourable 
compared to expectations mainly from 
good experience in the US post-2004 
business. Morbidity was unfavourable  
by about the same amount, driven by 
adverse experience in the critical illness 
business in the UK and asia. Model and 
assumption changes were favourable, 
driven by interest rate updates of the 
valuation of disabled life reserves.

For more on the underwriting 
performance of all Business Units,  
see pages 34‒45.

Market environment 
Hedge funds, pension funds and  
other capital market participants have  
been supplying ‘alternative’ capital to  
re/insurance markets in recent years  
as they search for higher returns. 
Primary insurers are also by and large 
well-capitalised after several years  
of generally benign loss experience, 
leading some of them to retain more 
risk than has normally been the case.

These forces have been depressing 
prices, especially in short-tail lines, 
making disciplined and selective 
underwriting ever more critical for  
re/insurers. For the January 2016  
renewals we observed a continued 
general price softening in property  
and specialty lines of business. 
casualty has been relatively stable, 
with significant differences by 
segment. The softening in the 
important US natural catastrophe 
market has started to ease and there  
is evidence that it is approaching an 
inflection point.

inflation is currently well contained  
and will continue to keep property  
and casualty claims severity increases 
generally low for a while. The long-term 
outlook for inflation is more uncertain.

exposure growth should continue to 
accelerate gradually in line with the 
economy. in high growth markets,  
and especially in asia, we expect to 
see strong exposure growth for both 
life and non-life insurance, further 
accelerated by urbanisation and 
increasing insurance penetration 
among the growing middle classes. 
Fiscal austerity is expected to drive 
risks from the public to the private 
sector, creating opportunities in 
infrastructure, pensions, healthcare 
and natural catastrophes. More 
immediate opportunities exist in other 
areas with insurance protection gaps.

Outlook  
in the short term we expect challenging 
conditions to persist until demand  
and supply of capacity start to balance.  
in such an environment underwriting 
outperformance remains key. We will 
therefore seek to continue to exploit our 
competitive advantage in risk selection 
and capital allocation to protect our 
bottom line. We will reduce capacity  
for flow business in Property & casualty 
reinsurance and focus on large  
and tailored transactions for all lines.  
in addition, we will be pursuing 
opportunities presented by major 
demographic, socioeconomic and 
technological trends, including the rise  
of high growth markets, where growth 
remains dynamic; or where the need  
for health protection is expanding, as in 
ageing societies. last but not least, we 
will also focus on areas where protection 
gaps threaten resilience. 

Swiss Re 2015 Financial report  27

