the european insurance and Occupational Pension authority (the “eiOPa”), which  
has the power to overrule national regulators in certain circumstances. in addition, the 
Group is subject to the Swiss Solvency test and, through its legal entities organised in 
the european economic area, Solvency ii, which entered into force on 1 January 2016. 
the Group is also monitoring the impact of the Swiss federal act on financial market 
infrastructure (which became effective 1 January 2016 and introduced new 
regulations for over-the-counter derivatives trading in line with international standards) 
and the proposed Swiss federal financial Services act and financial institutions act 
(which contain rules for financial services providers that are based on the eU markets 
in financial instruments Directive (“mifiD”) regulations). in the United States, as a 
possible step towards federal oversight of insurance, the US Congress created the 
federal insurance Office within the Department of treasury. in addition, provisions  
of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection act of 2010, as well as provisions  
in the proposed european market infrastructure Regulation and proposed changes  
to mifiD, in respect of derivatives could have a significant impact on the Group.

Other changes are focused principally on banking institutions, but some could have 
direct applicability to insurance or reinsurance operations and others could have  
a general impact on the regulatory landscape for financial institutions, which might 
indirectly impact capital requirements and/or required reserve levels or have other 
direct or indirect effects on the Group or its securities. Changes are particularly likely  
to impact financial institutions designated as “systemically important,” a designation 
which is expected to result in enhanced regulatory supervision and heightened  
capital, liquidity and diversification requirements under evolving reforms. 

there is an emerging focus on classifying certain insurance companies as systemically 
important as well. the Group could be designated as a global systemically important 
financial institution (Sifi) under the framework for systemically important financial 
institutions developed by the financial Stability Board, or as a systemically important 
non-bank financial company by the financial Stability Oversight Council (the fSOC)  
in the United States. Separately, the international association of insurance Supervisors, 
an international body that represents insurance regulators and supervisors, published 
a methodology for identifying global systemically important insurers (“G-Siis”) and on a 
framework for supervision of internationally active insurance groups. initial designation 
of insurers as G-Siis took place in July 2013, and initial designation of reinsurers as 
G-Siis has been postponed pending further development of the methodology due by 
november 2015, to be applied to new designations in 2016. if and when reinsurers 
are included in the list of G-Siis, the Group could be so designated. Were the Group  
to be designated as a G-Sii, it could be subject to one or both of the resulting regimes, 
once implemented, including capital standards under both regimes (the Basic Capital 
Requirement for G-Siis and the insurance Capital Standard for internationally active 
insurance Groups). in addition, the Group ultimately will be subject to oversight of its 
Swiss regulator in respect of recovery and resolution planning. 

Significant policy decisions on a range of regulatory changes that could affect  
the Group and its operations remain undecided. the Group cannot predict which 
legislative and regulatory initiatives ultimately will be enacted or promulgated,  
what the scope and content of these initiatives ultimately will be, when they will  
be effective and what the implications will be for the industry, in general, and for  
the Group, in particular. Certain of these initiatives could have a material impact  
on the Group’s business.

in addition, regulatory changes could occur in areas of broader application, such as 
competition policy and tax laws. Changes in tax laws, for example, could increase  
the taxes the Group pays, the attractiveness of products offered by the Group,  
the Group’s investment activities and the value of deferred tax assets. any number  
of these changes could apply to the Group and its operations. these changes,  
or inconsistencies between the various regimes that apply to the Group, could increase 
the costs of doing business, reduce access to liquidity, limit the scope of business  
or affect the competitive balance, or could make reinsurance less attractive to  
primary insurers.

Swiss Re 2015 financial Report  275

