FInanCIaL STaTEMEnTS
notes to the Group financial statements

The Group’s OTC interest rate derivatives primarily include interest rate swaps, futures, options, caps and floors, and are  
valued based on the cash flow discounting models which generally utilise as inputs observable market yield curves  
and volatility assumptions. 

The Group’s OTC foreign exchange derivatives primarily include forward, spot and option contracts and are generally valued 
based on the cash flow discounting models, utilising as main inputs observable foreign exchange forward curves. 

The Group’s investments in equity derivatives primarily include OTC equity option contracts on single or baskets of market 
indices and equity options on individual or baskets of equity securities, which are valued using internally developed models 
(such as the Black-Scholes type option pricing model and various simulation models) calibrated with the inputs, which include 
underlying spot prices, dividend curves, volatility surfaces, yield curves, and correlations between underlying assets.

The Group’s OTC credit derivatives can include index and single-name credit default swaps, as well as more complex structured 
credit derivatives. Plain vanilla credit derivatives, such as index and single-name credit default swaps, are valued by the Group 
based on the models consistent with the industry valuation standards for these credit contracts, and primarily utilise observable 
inputs published by market data sources, such as credit spreads and recovery rates. These valuation techniques warrant 
classification of plain vanilla OTC derivatives as level 2 financial instruments in the fair value hierarchy. 

Governance around level 3 fair valuation
The asset Valuation Committee, endorsed by the Group Executive Committee, has a primary responsibility for governing and 
overseeing all of the Group’s asset and derivative valuation policies and operating parameters (including level 3 measurements).  
The asset Valuation Committee delegates the responsibility for implementation and oversight of consistent application of the 
Groupʼs pricing and valuation policies to the Pricing and Valuation Committee.

The Pricing and Valuation Committee, which is a joint Risk Management & Finance management control committee, is 
responsible for the implementation and consistent application of the pricing and valuation policies. Key functions of the Pricing 
and Valuation Committee include: oversight over the entire valuation process, approval of internal valuation methodologies, 
approval of external pricing vendors, monitoring of the independent price verification (IPV) process and resolution of significant 
or complex valuation issues.

a formal IPV process is undertaken monthly by members of the Valuation Risk Management team within the Financial Risk 
Management function. The process includes monitoring and in-depth analyses of approved pricing methodologies and 
valuations of the Group’s financial instruments aimed at identifying and resolving pricing discrepancies.

The Risk Management function is responsible for independent validation and ongoing review of the Group’s valuation models. 
The Product Control group within Finance is tasked with reporting of fair values through the vendor- and model-based valuations, 
the results of which are also subject to the IPV process.

202  Swiss Re 2015 Financial Report

