Financial year

Market environment
Global growth improved in 2015 
but developed unevenly across 
regions. The US economy grew  
at a solid pace, while growth in 
china slowed. Monetary policies 
of major central banks remained 
accommodative and government 
bond yields were low. equity 
markets performed moderately  
in the first half of the year and 
declined in the second half.

The global economy and  
financial markets 
The US and UK economies continued  
to expand at a solid pace, driven by 
investments and robust consumer 
spending. in contrast, the recovery  
in the eurozone remained weak. While 
low interest rates, low oil prices and a 
relatively weak euro contributed to the 
eurozone’s highest growth since 2011, 
its growth rate was still about one 
percentage point below the US and  
the UK. among the eurozone’s southern 
and other peripheral countries, ireland 
and Spain experienced the strongest 
expansion, while recovery was sluggish 
in italy and especially in Greece. 
Unemployment in the eurozone 
decreased slightly but remained 
significantly above the pre-crisis level. 
The Japanese economy grew modestly 
with the Bank of Japan (BoJ) continuing 
its quantitative easing programme. 
Falling commodity prices, fears  
of a chinese hard landing and the 
expectation of monetary tightening  
in the US created uncertainty for the 
global economy.

Headline inflation fell in many countries 
due to lower oil prices. in the US, the 
eurozone and the UK, it dropped close 
to zero. However, core inflation, which 
excludes food and energy prices, was 
basically unchanged in the US at 1.8%. 
inflation in Japan also dropped below 
1% after rising to 2.8% in 2014 due to 
the sales tax increase in april 2014. 

economic performance in emerging 
markets was disappointing overall but 
varied across regions. china’s economic 
growth in 2015 fell almost one-half 
percentage point below the level of 
2014, driven by lower exports and 
modest investment growth. india’s 
performance was stronger, with 
business and consumer sentiment 
improving significantly on expectations 
of a strong push towards economic 
reform and liberalisation. india was  
the world’s fastest-expanding large 
economy in 2015.

Growth in latin america was 
disappointing with deep recessions in 
Brazil and Venezuela and below-trend 
growth in the rest of the region.  
Brazil’s economy contracted by  
more than 3%, suffering from lower 
consumer spending and a large drop  
in investments. The Mexican economy 
was hampered by low industrial activity 
and falling oil and gas production while 
private consumption remained healthy. 
in Southeast asia, economic activity 
was robust, with strong growth in the 
Philippines, Malaysia and Vietnam.  
in contrast, russia’s economy fell into  
a deep recession due mainly to low oil 
prices and sanctions.

Major economies in africa and the 
Middle east developed unevenly,  
driven largely by political developments  
and lower oil and commodity prices. 
Growth in South africa was sluggish,  
as companies dealt not only with  
lower commodity prices but also with  
weak domestic and foreign demand, 
electrical outages, union actions  
and rising input costs. Saudi arabia 
experienced solid growth, though  
the central government’s fiscal balance 
deteriorated sharply due to lower  
oil prices. 

14  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

