Corporate GovernanCe

Overview
the Board of Directors assesses  
the Group’s corporate governance 
on a regular basis with the aim to 
align to new stakeholder demands. 

Swiss re’s corporate governance adheres 
to the SIX Swiss exchange’s Directive  
on Information relating to Corporate 
Governance, including its annex.  
It is also in line with the principles of  
the Swiss Code of Best practice for 
Corporate Governance (Swiss Code)  
of September 2014, issued by 
economiesuisse, the Swiss business 
federation. Swiss re, moreover,  
conforms to the Swiss Financial Market 
Supervisory authority (FInMa) 
provisions on corporate governance,  
risk management and internal control 
systems, which came into effect  
on 1 January 2009. Swiss re’s 
corporate governance also complies  
with applicable local rules and 
regulations in all jurisdictions where  
it conducts business.

the Board of Directors assesses the 
Group’s corporate governance on  
an annual basis against relevant  
best practice standards. It monitors  
corporate governance developments 
globally. It receives updates on 
developments affecting corporate 
governance and considers the relevant 
studies and surveys on corporate 
governance. Information on 
compensation of and loans to members 
of the Board of Directors and the 
Group executive Committee (Group eC) 
is included in the Compensation report 
beginning on page 130 and their  
shareholdings in Swiss re are listed  
in the notes to the Swiss re Ltd  
financial statements.

Swiss Re’s corporate governance 
framework
Swiss re’s Board of Directors is 
responsible for oversight, while the  
Group eC is responsible for managing 
operations. this structure maintains 
effective mutual checks and balances 
between the top corporate bodies.  
our corporate governance principles  
and procedures are defined in a series  
of documents governing the organisation 
and management of the company.  
these include at the Group level:
 ̤ the Group Code of Conduct, outlining 

our compliance framework and setting 
out the basic legal and ethical 
principles and policies we apply 
globally;

 ̤ the Corporate Governance Guidelines 
(Guidelines), setting forth the Group’s 
governance framework, principles  
and processes, ensuring efficient  
and consistent corporate governance 
across the Group;

76  Swiss Re 2015 Financial report

 ̤ the articles of association, defining  

the legal and organisational 
framework of the Group’s holding 
company (available at  
http://www.swissre.com/about_us/
corporate_governance/ 
corporate_regulations.html);

 ̤ the Group Bylaws, defining the 

governance structure within the  
Group as well as the responsibilities  
of the Board of Directors, Chairman, 
vice Chairman, Lead Independent 
Director, Board committees, Group eC,  
Group Ceo and of the further 
individual Group  eC members 
including the regional presidents; 
furthermore they describe the relevant 
reporting procedures;

 ̤ the Board Committee Charters, 

outlining the duties and responsibilities 
of the Board committees; and

 ̤ the instructions and guidelines 
describing working methods, 
governance processes and  
timetables of the Board of Directors 
and Board committees. 

In addition, they include at the Business 
Unit level:
 ̤ Business Unit Bylaws, defining  

the governance structure and 
principles within the Business Units 
reinsurance, Corporate Solutions  
and Life Capital in line with the  
Group Bylaws.

2015 Key focus areas
Binding AGM votes on Board  
of Directors and Group EC 
compensation 
the annual General Meeting 2014 had 
approved the amendments to the articles 
of association required to comply  
with the “ordinance against excessive 
Compensation at public Corporations” 
(ordinance) which became effective  
on 1 January 2014. Based on the new 
provisions, the annual General Meeting 
2015 was asked to vote with a binding 
effect on the compensation for the 
Board of Directors and the Group eC. 
proposals with respect to the following 
three motions were submitted to the 
annual General Meeting 2015 for binding 
votes: 1. the maximum aggregate amount 
of the compensation of the Board of 
Directors for the next term of office;  
2. the maximum aggregate amount for 
the fixed and variable long-term 
compensation of the Group eC for the 
financial year 2016; and 3. the aggregate 
amount of variable short-term 

